 Port Elizabeth - Oracle Media has been appointed as a supplier for JT Foxx! Oracle Media entered into negotiations in April 2020, and shortly thereafter, JT Foxx appointed them. Content created by Oracle Media has already gone live on his platforms. JT also appeared on the ‘In Conversation’ series on the Oracle Media FB page in May. At the beginning of the lockdown, Oracle Media knew that to keep the business going they needed to reinvent the way they do things. They also wanted to keep their followers and clients in the know. And what better way to do both - with Webinars! Since 1 April 2020, Oracle Media has been running Webinars every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. One such a day in May 2020, JT Fox was ‘In Conversation’ with Neil Barker, MD of Oracle Media. Although JT Foxx’s time was limited, they discussed what businesses need to do to cope during the pandemic. They also chatted about what businesses need to reinvent themselves creating new leads, and closing sales. “It was such an honour to be one of the companies JT shortlisted for this contract and, for a company that started in PE and now has three offices countrywide, we are so proud to have been selected,” Neil Barker said. JT Foxx is not only an international business coach and world no 1 Wealth Coach. He is an interrupter. He disrupts the usual and breaks boundaries with his methodologies and his philosophies. One of his many famous quotes sets the tone for this dynamic serial entrepreneur. “If you are born broke, that is not your fault. If you die broke, that is 100% your fault. Choose to be a millionaire underdog”. Coaching has changed his life from a broke and unknown entity to a serial entrepreneur with over 50 companies and brands, philanthropist, and the world's #1 wealth coach. He was named by Fast Company South Africa as one of the most innovative entrepreneurs of 2018. With MillionaireFLIX, JT Foxx single-handedly disrupted the online education space. MillionaireFLIX had over 4000 hours of coaching hours and over 31 programmes available. His content ranges from property investment, sales, marketing, strategy vs failure, business growth, negotiation to strategy vs failure and how to make money while you sleep. 11% of his viewers on MillionaireFLIX are South African and he is very familiar with our country and culture. What is most important are his philanthropic endeavours with youth entrepreneurs and kids with cancer. JT Foxx is someone the Oracle Media team admires and Neil Barker, MD of Oracle Media often attends JT’s Webinars and is a follower of his coaching. “Don’t strive for success but rather choose to be a person of significance and value. Do that and your clients will take care of your profits and your success rate.” - JT Foxx. We are so excited to be working for such a pioneer! Welcome to the Oracle Media Team, JT Foxx! Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 