 Port Elizabeth - Three men from Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, are expected in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday after they were arrested by police on charges of possession of suspected stolen property and theft. "It is alleged that during the early hours of Monday morning, at about 03:00, Anti-Gang Unit members were stationary on the Addo Road in Motherwell when they notice a blue Toyota Condor driving towards them with its lights off," said police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu. "As the vehicle approached the members, the driver of the vehicle switched on the lights. The vehicle was stopped and upon searching the trailer attached to the bakkie, 10 brand new truck tyres worth R9500 each were found. "The police officers were not satisfied with the driver’s explanation, the driver (35) and his two passengers, aged between 30 and 35, were detained on a charge of possession of suspected stolen property." Col Naidu said that it is further alleged that on Monday, at about 12:00, the manager of a business in Markman was notified that a trailer with 290 truck tyres, which was parked on the premises on Friday, was no longer on the premises. "A case of theft of tyres was opened at SAPS Swartkops. The value of the tyres is estimated at R1,5 million. "At about 21:00 last night, on Monday, a Detective Sergeant from SAPS Motherwell received information about a load of truck tyres at a house in Rose Lane in NU11 in Motherwell," she described. "Immediately, the information was mobilised and a task team comprising of SAPS Motherwell Detective, Crime Prevention, Community Service Centre and PE Flying Squad members swooped in on the house. "A total of 73 tyres were recovered in a room as well as in the garage of the house. Co-incidentally, the house belongs to the driver of the blue Toyota, who was arrested early in the morning."  Col Naidu said that the total value of the recovered tyres is R788 500. She added that the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation in Port Elizabeth has since taken over the investigation. SAPS Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, hailed the arrests and recoveries a huge success. "Businesses are losing millions of revenue through theft and break-ins at their premises. The South African Police Service is warning those people, who are buying suspected stolen property through their ‘back doors’,  that they will also be prosecuted if found to be in possession of such property. "Buying stolen property is an offence and the purchaser has more to lose when he is arrested as his stock will be seized and confiscated. I urge the community to reject any goods that may have been stolen instead report the matter to the police," added Lieutenant General Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 