 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Nelson Mandela Bay on Tuesday condemned what it termed "the blatant intimidation of acting city manager, Ms. Noxolo Nqwazi, and her subsequent unilateral removal from the position by illegal interim Mayor, Tshonono Buyeye". "Ms. Nqwasi has allegedly been repeatedly threatened, reportedly due to her refusal to process dodgy tenders," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga, who is also the party's Nelson Mandela Bay Mayoral candidate. "The DA has reliably learned that the latest threat was received this morning, 8 June 2020, when Ms. Nqwazi found a threatening note on the windscreen of her vehicle, informing her that she must step down as acting city manager or she would be dealt with. "Before she could respond, Cllr Buyeye, unilaterally, without bringing the item to Council, made the decision on her behalf, informing Ms. Nqwazi in writing that she has been replaced by the deeply compromised Mr. Mvuleni Mapu." Bhanga further claimed that Cllr Buyeye has previously called for Ms. Nqwazi to resign from her position after she was booked off sick following a motor vehicle accident, where she sustained a neck injury. "Cllr Buyeye’s actions has all the hallmarks of the removal of Ms. Lindiwe Msengana-Ndlela as City Manager in 2013.  Her removal followed after she had raised concerns about political interference in her job, as well as intimidation," he added. "In 2015 the Port Elizabeth High Court ordered that the Municipality to pay Ms. Msengana-Ndlela, R3.1-million in damages, including interest and legal costs. "Clearly the coalition of corruption currently running the city, are hell-bent on taking every cent they can get their hands on and will use intimidation and violence to remove anyone who stands in their way. "These are the actions of desperate individuals who know their time is coming to an end. "This behaviour vindicates the DA’s decision to not attend the Council meeting last week Friday, which was a blatant attempt to rubberstamp an unlawful budget that has not had any input from the residents of Nelson Mandela Bay." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 