 Port Elizabeth - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday addressed the nation and announced the further easing of lockdown regulations to allow for more economic activity although the country remains at Level 3. His address came 100 days into the COVID-19 lockdown he announced in March. Here are a few key things we noted in his address. "In the midst of this life-destroying pandemic, we are greatly encouraged by news this week of a breakthrough in the treatment of COVID-19," said President Ramaphosa. "A study by the University of Oxford in Britain found that the drug dexamethasone – which is also manufactured here in South Africa by one of our pharmaceutical companies and of which there is an ample supply – reduced deaths among patients on ventilation by a third." He said that the Department of Health and the Ministerial Advisory Committee has recommended that dexamethasone can be considered for use on patients on ventilators and on oxygen supply. "We believe that this will improve our management of the disease among those who are most severely affected." He said that since the start of the outbreak, there have been 80 412 confirmed coronavirus cases in South Africa. "Of these, 44,331 people – or around 55% – have recovered," Ramaphosa said. "That means there are currently 34,407 active cases in the country. Yet, as we know, the cost in human lives could have been far higher." The President did warn that even after 100 days, we are still near the beginning of this epidemic and it will remain with us for many more months, possibly years. "The task of dealing with the coronavirus pandemic is like running a marathon race and not a sprint, and we have therefore had to shape our response according to that reality," he said. "Over the last few weeks, the number of infections has been rising rapidly." Ramaphosa said that nearly a third of all confirmed cases have been recorded in the last week alone and more than half of all confirmed cases have been recorded over the last two weeks. "The Western Cape has so far been hardest hit by the disease, accounting for about 60% of infections across the country. "While community transmission has remained low across most of the country for the past 9 weeks, it has been rising rapidly in that province," he described. "There are indications that transmission in the Eastern Cape is now starting to rise and may just be a few weeks behind the Western Cape. "For many of us, what was once a distant disease is now coming much closer." He called on the public to continue to delay the rate of infection across society. "Studies show that wearing a cloth mask or similar piece of clothing that covers both your nose and mouth at all times when one is in public is one of those measures that reduces the rate of transmission of the virus," he said. "We would like to encourage everyone in our country to wear masks when they are in public. Let us make sure that we do not share masks and that we wash our masks thoroughly in soap and water after each use. "The wearing of masks, however, is no substitute for regular washing of hands with soap and water or sanitiser and maintaining a distance of at least 1.5 metres from other people. "Let us all remember not to touch our faces with unwashed hands, and clean and sanitise surfaces regularly. "We should also keep in mind that social distancing is still one of the most effective ways of reducing the spread of the virus." The President said government's response is now also more focused, on hotspot areas with the greatest rate of infection and sending multi-disciplinary health teams to contain outbreaks and ensure those with the infection get the necessary care. "At the same time, we have massively increased screening for coronavirus symptoms throughout the country, at every workplace, school, university, shopping centre, place of worship, taxi rank or other public space where people gather." Following further discussions with industry representatives on stringent prevention protocols, and after advice from scientists and consultation with Premiers, Ramaphosa said that Cabinet has decided to ease restrictions on certain other economic activities. These activities include: - Restaurants for ‘sit-down’ meals- Accredited and licensed accommodation, with the exception of home-sharingaccommodation like AirBnB.- Conferences and meetings for business purposes and in line with restrictions on public gatherings.- Cinemas and theatres, to be aligned to limitations on the gathering of people.- Casinos.- Personal care services, including hairdressers and beauty services- Non-contact sports such as golf, tennis, cricket and others. Contact sports will be allowed only for training and modified activities with restricted use of facilities. "In each instance, specific and stringent safety requirements have been agreed on and will need to be put in place before a business can re-open, and protocols will need to be strictly adhered to for businesses to remain open," the President said. "Announcements will be made in due course to detail these measures and indicate the date from which these activities will be permitted. "We have taken this decision with due care and seriousness, appreciating the risks associated with each activity and the measures needed to manage those risks. "Through the easing of the lockdown we are continuing to balance our overriding objective of saving lives and preserving livelihoods. "We are therefore working closely with international agencies and other countries in responding to the coronavirus." "As Chair of the African Union, we are integrally involved in forging a common approach across the continent, ensuring that we mobilise resources and develop strategies to ensure that no country is left behind," Ramaphosa said. "There are currently over 250,000 confirmed cases in Africa and there have been more than 6,700 deaths. "This is relatively low compared to the global number of cases – which has now passed 8 million – largely because African countries acted swiftly to implement national lockdowns. "However, we can expect infections in Africa to rise as countries ease restrictions in the face of severe economic pressures and we are working together as a continent to meet that challenge." Ramaphosa said that it is with the heaviest of hearts that he stands before the women and girls of South Africa to talk about another pandemic that is raging in our country – the killing of women and children by the men of our country. "As a man, as a husband and as a father, I am appalled at what is no less than a war being waged against the women and children of our country. "At a time when the pandemic has left us all feeling vulnerable and uncertain, violence is being unleashed on women and children with a brutality that defies comprehension," he described. "These rapists and killers walk among us. They are in our communities. They are our fathers, our brothers, our sons and our friends; violent men with utterly no regard for the sanctity of human life. "Over the past few weeks no fewer than 21 women and children have been murdered. Their killers thought they could silence them. "But we will not forget them and we will speak for them where they cannot." He noted the names of recent victims of GBV in several provinces. "They are not just statistics. They have names and they had families and friends. This evening, our thoughts and prayers are with them," the President said. "I want to commend the South African Police Service for their excellent work in arresting almost all of the alleged perpetrators. "As these suspects make bail applications this week, I have the utmost confidence that our courts will send the strongest of signals that such violence has no place in society." He noted government efforts to address GBV. "Several international and domestic studies show clear linkages between alcohol abuse and gender-based violence. "Of course, it is not alcohol that rapes or kills a woman or a child. Rather, it is the actions of violent men," the President said. "But if alcohol intoxication is contributing to these crimes, then it must be addressed with urgency. "We need to draw the lessons from this lockdown and decide how we can protect our society from the abuse of alcohol. "Certainly, we need to provide greater support to people with drinking problems, including through rehabilitation and treatment. We need to encourage responsible drinking, especially among young people. We need to be tough on liquor outlets that violate the terms of their licenses and who sell alcohol to those under-age." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 