 Port Elizabeth - The Mandela Bay Development Agency, an entity of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and operators of the Uitenhage based Science and Technology Centre, today presented Khulile Primary School with nearly 200 bottled sanitizers and 150 cloth face masks. The timely delivery of the much-needed PEE was handed over by Nelson Mandela Bay Mayoral Spokesperson, Siyanda Mxotwa, representing Mayor Thsonono Buyeye. The intervention was made possible when a parent at the school suggested to the Principal to write to the MBDA for help when talk of schools reopening emerged. On receiving the PEE, Principal Zokoza said “The intervention from the Municipality could not have come at a better time, parents are nervous about bringing their children to school, we also only received one mask per child from the department to date” “The engagement with the MBDA has also led to us talking about science and maths support through the centre they operate. Our school has a laboratory without equipment and resources to assist learners with experiments, so we appreciate the support and we know that through this engagement, our learners will be capacitated well” Mxotwa, speaking on behalf of Mayor Buyeye said “the Mayor would have loved to be here because education is very close to him. Motherwell as we all know is Covid-19 hot-spot and therefore requires all the support we can provide. We called on all departments including our entity, the MBDA to avail support and resources to battle the spread of Covid-19” The production of sanitizers and masks was done in partnership with IM Africa Foundation FOI Science from the 07th – 13th May, producing over 2000 bottles of hand sanitisers, 1000 masks and antibacterial-antiviral lotion. Centre Manager, Singathwa Kuli earlier said, “We understand the socioeconomic challenges posed by COVID-19; hence we have prioritised employing 15 unemployed members of the community. The objective of the program is to empower these 15 individuals through skills development that will provide sustenance for them and their respective communities during the COVID-19 global pandemic.” The Science Centre’s role of assisting learners to acquire basic knowledge of Science through developed learning programmes, including Education, Training and Skills Development is deeply needed during the COVID-19 global pandemic. The Science Centre practicals will be administered at the schools and/or at the Centre upon request from the schools and/or DoE when the curriculum catch-up strategy has been publicised. Recorded media will also be made available to schools via NMBSTC social platforms. Grade 7 pupil Ababalwe Tolom thanked the MBDA on behalf of all her peers and promised to follow all Covid-19 protection protocols including wearing her mask and washing hands. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 