 East London - Following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address on easing of lockdown regulations from level 4 down to level 3, Minister for Transport, Fikile Mbalula also briefed the media on regulations and guidelines for the transport sector under level 3. Buffalo City Metro Traffic Services has passed the assessment on the state of readiness test conducted by the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) and all BCM Driving License Testing Centres are open except Gonubie at this stage, with the relevant safety measures and protocols governing the observation of social distancing, temperature screening and wearing of masks observed. The seven-week lockdown has made it difficult for South African motorists to renew expired licences, and the government has published a number of regulations to extend the validity of these licences until the lockdown restrictions are relaxed. The latest regulations state that all documentation that expired between 26 March and 31 May will now be extended for 90 days from 1 June. People who had previously booked but could not test due to the lockdown will be contacted for new dates. No new bookings for driver’s and leaner’s license tests will be accepted until the backlog caused by the lockdown is completed. People who need to renew their driver’s licenses are encouraged to make bookings with the departments contact the stations on the following numbers:1. East London 043 705 9326/9335,2. King Williams Town 043 604 8486/8479 and3. Mdantsane on 0437059909This is requested in order to keep the numbers of people at the department at a minimum. Gonubie Driving License Testing Centre is not open due to challenges with the LEU machines, however the Department of Transport will be open from tomorrow and will be contacted to repair the machines as soon as possible. All BCMM Vehicle Registration, Licensing Stations are operational and can be contacted on the following numbers:1. East London 043 705 30042. Gonubie 043 705 9710/093. King Williams Town 043 604 8486 The operating hours are as follows: Monday- Friday 08:00am to 16:00 pm. In addition, motor trade number licences that expired during this period have had their validity extended by a further six months. A motor trade number is typically used to operate an unregistered and unlicensed motor vehicle on a public road in the course of their business. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 