 Port Elizabeth - Efforts by the South African Police Service in Port Elizabeth to protect marine life from illegal poachers continue to yield result. In two unrelated incidents, members of the Port Elizabeth K9 unit disrupted suspects during alleged abalone poaching in the area of flat rock alongside Marine Drive, Humewood. "On Saturday, at about 10:45, the members were busy with patrols in Marine Drive when they received information of three suspects allegedly busy with abalone poaching," described police spokesperson, Colonel Sibongile Soci. "The members spotted the three suspects who were still in the water. "After coming to the shore, a 40-year-old man was arrested and a plastic bag containing seven live periwinkles, 61 sandworms, 15 units of undersized abalone and one octopus was found in his possession." He was charged with the Contravention of Marine Living Resources Act 18/1998 while the other two suspects were issued a fine for Contravention of Marine Living Resources Act 18/1998 by engaging and collecting of sandworms for fishing without a permit. The suspect will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday In another unrelated incident on Saturday, at about 19:30, while in Marine Drive, Humewood, the members noticed a blue Polo Classic vehicle parked in the bushes opposite the Golf Club. "As the members approached the vehicle, the vehicle sped away and a high-speed chase ensued," said Col Soci. "As they approached the Summerstrand residential area the passenger in the vehicle threw a plastic bag out of the window. "The members stopped next to the bag and noticed that it contained abalone.  The suspects fled and later the members counted 269 units of abalone in the bag." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 