 Port Alfred - A 33-year-old woman from Bathurst - identified by police as Tumeka Louise Zweni, appeared in the Port Alfred Magistrate’s Court this week for alleged funeral policy fraud and was released on R1 000-00 bail. "It is alleged that the suspect submitted funeral claims against deceased persons and informed unsuspecting family members that a claim could not be paid out citing various reasons," said police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender. "In one incident, the victim went to the funeral home where she took a policy for her who had just passed on, to submit a claim but was informed by the suspect, who is an employee, that the funeral policy was not mature and further informed her that she will not receive payment. "The victim was requested to submit a death certificate so that they can cancel the policy. The victim handed over the requested documents." Capt Govender said that the suspect who is a data capture at the funeral home submitted a claim on 'behalf' of the victim and R10 000-00 was paid into the suspect’s relatives bank account where she used the card and made the withdrawals. "The suspect's relative went to report at Bathurst police station where a case of fraud was opened," she added. "The witness also revealed that there were several other claims paid into her account. "The suspect will reappear on the 27 August 2020 in the same court." The Commercial Crime Unit of Port Alfred are urging the community to contact their local SAPS or the Crime Stop number 0860010111 if they have similar incidents to report. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  