 Port Elizabeth - As part of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s intensified efforts to fight against COVID-19, NMBM Council Speaker Buyelwa Mafaya led a public health programme on Monday, focusing on disadvantaged farm areas. Councillor Mafaya visited informal settlements in the Greenbushes and Rocklands areas to educate residents and donate personal protective equipment (PPE) to help the disadvantaged residents of the City continue the fight against COVID-19. Accompanying Speaker Mafaya during the visits was Mayoral Committee Member and Safety and Security portfolio head Councillor Queenie Pink. Addressing residents at St Albans Location, Speaker Mafaya said: “We want you to stay at home safe and only go out when there is a need to do so. You must not feel like you are not cared for. We miss you and we love you, but right now is not the right time for us to meet up in large groups.” She explained that the Municipality had decided to zoom in on informal settlements specifically because there were corners within the City that had not previously received PPE donations. “They have not received soaps, sanitisers and masks to protect themselves from COVID-19. We always encourage residents to wash their hands, wear masks, stay at home and keep social distancing, but today we are here because some of them cannot afford to buy the protective equipment so the Municipality decided to donate this equipment. Residents really welcomed our efforts and appreciated that we are thinking of them during this COVID-19 period.” As at June 7, the Eastern Cape had recorded 5974 COVID-19 confirmed cases, with the NMBM leading, with 1724 confirmed cases and 37 deaths. Excited resident Nandipha Sifunda said that the donations of hand sanitisers, masks and soap would go a long way, as many residents in St Albans Location were unemployed and could not afford to buy the equipment themselves. “This donation came at the right time, because the little equipment we bought for ourselves are now running out, as we use sanitisers regularly. It’s compulsory now for everyone to wash their hands, so you can’t refuse to assist those that need it, because their safety is also your safety. We share! We are grateful to the Municipality,” Sifunda said. Resident Lungisile Mpambani said he was happy to see Government officials teaching residents about how to avoid being infected by COVID-19. “Some people might think this virus is still a joke. These kind of visits are essential. We are happy, because the Municipality did not just give us theory, but also gave us tools to protect ourselves against this deadly virus,” Mpambani said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 