 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Provincial Government’s Special Executive Council meeting resolved to adopt a plan by the Auditor-General South Africa to conduct special audit focusing on the procurement of goods and services, distribution of material procured by the provincial government departments and municipalities being implemented as part of fighting the Covid19 pandemic. The special audit will focus on the use of additional grants allocated to the province, use of own funds by the provincial government departments and municipalities being used to fight coronavirus. This special auditing will priorities the provincial Departments of Health, Public Works and Infrastructure, Human Settlements and will look at procurement deficiencies, management of large contracts related to covid19, systems and controls in terms of distribution of goods to assist the province. Ordinarily this audit would be done during next year’s audit but because we are dealing with a disaster, it is done now to help MECs identify deficiencies during this period. Both AGSA and the provincial government want to ensure transparency and good governance in the work of government responding to this pandemic. Speaking at the meeting, Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane said: “We really appreciate the work of the AGSA to help us do our work the best possible way required by our constitution. The plan by AGSA helps us to ensure compliance at all times and to prevent deficiencies. We will work with our teams to ensure that this audit happens, issues picked up by the audit are corrected.” Audit costs for this special audit for provincial government and municipalities will be absorbed into the costs of the current audit and this is done to reduce costs to government departments and municipalities. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 