 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Provincial Coronavirus Command Council on Tuesday welcomed the decision by the Provincial Department of Public Works and Infrastructure to procure properties for the quarantine of people during COVID-19 outbreak and infrastructure upgrade services from the province’s small businesses. "As part of its role in the implementation of the province’s Covid19 containment and mitigation strategy, the Public Works and Infrastructure Department provides infrastructure upgrade of public health facilities, procure private properties for quarantine and isolation of people under investigation for covid19 and those who need isolation after contracting the virus," said spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha. "The role of the department provides economic spinoffs to local companies that are facing economic hardship as a result of the national lockdown." According to a report presented to the Provincial Coronavirus Command council, the department has spent R4.5 million for the procurement of quarantine facilities from small and medium enterprises owned by the people of the Eastern Cape province and some leading accommodation facilities operating in the province in a bid to protect jobs that would have been lost by workers in some of these facilities. "With regards to procurement of service providers for sanitization of public buildings owned by the Public Works and Infrastructure Department, the department spent R586 945. 40 on companies based in the Eastern Cape province," Sicwetsha added. "On behalf of the Provincial Department of Health, the Provincial government is injecting R192. 6 million into the refurbishment of state owned health care facilities across the province, benefiting thirty-seven (37) small businesses from the Eastern Cape that have been contracted by the Department for this massive infrastructure rollout programme. "With the numbers of people infected by the virus increasing, the Provincial Coronavirus Command Council welcomed the report that the departments of Health, Public Works and Infrastructure will make available 500 bed field hospitals in each district, which are designed to accommodate: 200 beds for PUIs (People under Investigation), 200 for Isolation (Mild asymptomatic) and 100 beds will be for high care." Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, who is also the Chairperson of the Provincial Coronavirus Command Council said: “the amount of money we are spending on small and medium enterprises in our province is a good injection to these companies. "Through the amounts of money this department is spending on companies owned by the people of our province, we are contributing to their economic viability, we are assisting those in the hospitality industry, businesses within that sector’s value chain to have business activities during this hard time so that they can generate revenue and not completely close shop.” Mabuyane said the procurement of goods and services from small businesses was one of the priorities of the current administration, which was pronounced as a top priority in the 2019 maiden State of the Province Address. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 