 Bhisho - The Democratic Alliance (DA) over the weekend said that it will write to the Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize to call for the Eastern Cape Department of Health to be placed under administration in terms of section 100 (1) of the Constitution. "In the past several weeks we have seen a province with a broken health system miserably failing to deal with the rising infections of Covid-19," said Siviwe Gwarube MP - DA Shadow Minister of Health. "Reports indicate that on Friday during Dr Mkhize’s visit to the province, the Premier, Oscar Mabuyane admitted that the province is wholly unprepared for the next coming weeks." Gwarube said that; "While various provinces will start to reach their peak at different stages as the Western Cape infections showed, the capacity of provincial health departments will determine how devastating the effects of Covid-19 will be in those provinces," she added. "Even with high infection numbers, the Western Cape has led the way in terms of testing, provision of additional bed capacity, management of PPE supply and consistent community interventions. "The Eastern Cape does not have a functioning health system. The Covid-19 pandemic found the provincial department in disarray, the infrastructure of health facility in tatters, massive vacancy rates that render the system ill-equipped to roll out health services and poor leadership from the MEC of this department." Gwarube said that looking at the quality of the urgent interventions that the province is rolling out, it is clear that thousands of people will die if no drastic action is taken. "The province recently launched EMS patient transport which are essentially glorified wheelbarrows, an indication of a flailing department. Left to its own devices, the province will preside over a humanitarian crisis," she described. "That is why national government should place the province under administration as a matter of urgency. "The relevant section of the Constitution states that a province or department can be placed under administration when they are unable to fulfil an executive obligation in terms of the Constitution. "As per the Eastern Cape Premier’s own admission, the province – more so the department of health - does not have the capability to fulfill its constitutional obligations of providing adequate healthcare to all in the province. "It is important that the DoH establishes a team that will take over operations in the province in order to save lives. Failure to do so will place thousands – including healthcare workers – in mortal danger." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 