 Humansdorp - Police in Humansdorp have launched a search for four armed male suspects, who robbed a business along Main Street, Humansdorp, at about 11:45 on Sunday. "It is alleged that two males entered the business under the pretence to purchase a battery. Both suspects then suddenly drew firearms and ordered the sales clerk and two customers to lay down on the floor," said police spokesperson, Gerda Swart. "Two more armed suspects entered the business. The suspects then allegedly cleared the cash registers and removed the safe from an office. "The suspects then loaded the safe into a white Nissan NP200 bakkie that was parked outside with a 39-year-old female victim inside the said vehicle. The owner of the bakkie was still inside the business. "One of the suspects then took the keys of the bakkie and sped off with the vehicle with the female victim still inside. "The three other armed suspects got into a black BMW and sped off." Apparently, the 39-year-old female victim was later dropped off next to the N2 close to Port Elizabeth and she managed to contact relatives. "The suspects fled with an undisclosed amount of cash and is still at large." Capt Swart said that Humansdorp SAPS detectives are investigating a case of business robbery, theft of a motor vehicle and kidnapping and police are currently following up on all possible leads. "No arrests were made as yet and anyone who might be able to assist with any information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects are requested to contact Detective Warrant Officer Corné Smith on 082 441 7613 or Humansdorp SAPS on 042 200 4700," she said. "Anyone who has any information on crime are requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality. "The My SAPS app is also available for South African citizens to download onto their smartphones from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 