 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) Buffalo City Metro on Wednesday said that it is deeply concerned and angered by the increasing incidents of Gender-based Violence (GBV) directed mainly to women and femicide in the country. "The rise of GBV cases and femicide takes place at a time where the entire world is engaged in a fight against the novel coronavirus (Covid-19)," said Mnyamezeli Ndlazi, SACP Skenjana Roji District Deputy District Secretary. "As demonstrated by various media reports, women, especially those in abusive relationships, are increasingly at risk during the period of restricted movement. "As a result, it has been reported that GBV cases increased by 500% since the start of the national lockdown. This calls for all members of society to unite behind the fight against GBV and Femicide. "A Swift and decisive action must be taken by the law enforcement agencies on perpetrators of GBV and femicide." Ndlazi said that the SACP in the District has also noted the recovery of the body of a female from East London, who was reported missing on 10 June 2020. "The victim was found murdered with multiple stab wounds in the Chicken Farm area near Mdantsane." Ndlazi said that the SACP has learnt that the suspect, who after being interviewed confessed to the gruesome murder of the lady, appeared today for the first time in court. "The SACP in the District also understands that an image of the suspect has been circulating on social media platforms where he was wearing an SACP t-shirt," he described. "In this regard, we wish to state that although he was in SACP regalia, the suspect is not and has never been a member of the SACP. "We have also confirmed with the branch in which the suspect resides and they have also stated that he never joined nor has any association with the Party in the area. "As such, the Party will not be in a position to take action against the suspect given that he is not a member of the organisation. We, however, call on the law to take its course and ensure that justice is not only done, but be seen to be done in this and all other cases of GBV and femicide." Ndlazi added that the SACP in the district will continue to intensify its fight against GBV and femicide and the struggle to usher in a just and humane world order. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 