 East London - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday called on Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, must ensure that the remains of Sibusiso Qongqo, a medical student who passed away while studying on a government bursary in Cuba, are returned home so that his family can bury him. "The Premier also needs to have a frank discussion with his MEC of Health, Sindiswa Gomba, as her handling of this matter is lacking in the extreme. It is devoid of any compassion or care for the family that have lost a beloved son," said DA Eastern Cape Leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "Qongqo, 30, died in Havana, Cuba on April 29, after suffering from an acute pancreatic illness. "But, instead of stepping up to assist his devastated family, the uncaring provincial government, through MEC Gomba, sent the family a breakdown Qongqo’s death in monetary terms, saying it cost too much to bring him home." He said that this was done despite the Mandela-Castro medical scholarship programme clearly stating that if a student dies, the government has to bring the body back home for burial. "The MEC has put a price on Qongqo’s life, and his family’s dignity, and has decided the price is too much to pay. "To tell a grieving mother that she will not be able to bury her son and that even if she objects, the government will give the go-ahead for his remains to be cremated, is heartless in the extreme," Bhanga said. "The Democratic Alliance accepts that, due to the current global Covid-19 pandemic, there are extraordinary circumstances that need to be taken into consideration, but these do not exempt government from their responsibilities. "I have written to the Premier to request his urgent intervention in this regard, and to ask that he ensures that Qongqo’s remains are returned to his family for burial. "There should not be a debate, but since there seems to be reluctance to act, let me put it clear to the government. You paid for him to go to Cuba, you are duty-bound to bring him back." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 