 Bhisho - Eastern Cape’s MEC for Finance, Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism, Mlungisi Mvoko, and his wife, Balise Mvoko, have tested positive for coronavirus. "Both of them decided to test for the virus after they had flu symptoms. They are now in isolation. "The Eastern Cape Provincial Government wishes both MEC Mvoko, his wife well during their isolation period. Premier of the Eastern Cape Province, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, spoke to MEC Mvoko earlier on Friday to wish him and his wife, Balise, a speedy recovery," said the Office of the Premier. "Premier Mabuyane has taken a decision to allow MEC Mvoko time to focus on his recovery and that of his wife. "In this regard, Premier Mabuyane has appointed two MECs to act in the departments led by MEC Mvoko during this isolation period." MEC for Rural Development and Agrarian Reform, Nomakhosazana Meth, has been appointed to act as the MEC for Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism. "MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Xolile Nqatha, has been appointed to act as the MEC for Finance." Premier Mabuyane wishes every person, who has tested positive for coronavirus in our province a speedy recovery. He sent his heartfelt condolences to families that lost their loved ones because of this virus. "The provincial government and its social partners continue to work together to provide support to people infected by the coronavirus while also focusing on preventing the spread of the virus. Premier urges the people of the province to wear their cloth masks when they leave their homes, wash their hands with soap and water regularly, or with hand sanitizer and to keep social distance at all times." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 