 Port Elizabeth - The National Home Builders Registration Council will resume offering its full service operations at its main Provincial Offices as of Monday, 8th of June 2020 in line with the Level 3 Lockdown Regulations. Offices that will be reopened include Sunninghill, Pretoria, Cape Town, George, Durban, Polokwane, Port Elizabeth, East London, Rustenburg, Bloemfontein, Kimberley and Mbombela. Our satellite offices in Tzaneen, Witbank, Bethlehem, Thulamela, Mafikeng, Klerksdorp and Newcastle will be phased in gradually. “This is to ensure that we safeguard the health and safety of our employees and that the offices are compliant and suitable to accommodate our employees and customers, work is currently underway to deep clean and disinfect all offices nationally and distribute all the necessary Personal Protection Equipment (PPE),” said Acting Chief Executive, Otsile Maseng. Developers, contractors, home builders and housing consumers, who need to interact with NHBRC are urged to only visit our offices when it is absolutely necessary for collection of certificates (i.e. registration and enrolment) and to complete technical assessments. We further encourage those who need to submit necessary supporting documents to do so from the safety of their homes or offices via our new emailing list as per the following contact addresses; 1.      Gauteng:                GP-online@nhbrc.org.za 2.      Western Cape:        WC-online@nhbrc.org.za 3.      Eastern Cape:         EC-online@nhbrc.org.za 4.      Free State:              FS-online@nhbrc.org.za 5.      North West              NW-online@nhbrc.org.za 6.      Limpopo:                 LP-online@nhbrc.org.za 7.      Mpumalanga:          MP-online@nhbrc.org.za 8.      KwaZulu-Natal:       KZN-online@nhbrc.org.za 9.      Northern Cape        NC-online@nhbrc.org.za Each of our offices has established a Covid-19 Task Team to ensure the continued safety of our employees and customers and all visiting our offices are requested to cooperate with the measures put in place. As an agency of the Department of Human Settlements, we support all the national covid-19 interventions aimed at providing citizens with dignified accommodation and access to clean water, thus contributing to reducing the risks of infection associated with overcrowding. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 