 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality informed residents that the Interim Executive Mayor, Cllr Thsonono Buyeye and his staff went into a 14 quarantine period following news of the COVID-19 related passing of one of the Mayor's close protectors. The Executive Mayor sent his deepest condolences to the family of the deceased official. "This was devastating news for the Mayoral Office and myself personally. We wish his family strength and forbearance in this difficult time of loss and mourning. In his name and those of many others in Nelson Mandela Bay who have lost their lives to this disease, we will intensify our efforts to fight against this pandemic," said Executive Mayor Buyeye. "I have decided to submit myself for a 14 day quarantine period. This is not just a protocol issue: it is done to protect everyone who works for and interact with the Mayoral office." The Executive Mayor will continue to perform his duties from home, using a variety of communication platforms and interaction strategies. The Municipality is working around the clock to make sure that the workplace is safe for its employees, Councillors, ratepayers, residents and any other stakeholders who may be coming to our offices for service. Municipal employees have been provided with relevant personal protective clothing and municipal workplaces are consistently sanitised. In municipal workplaces where a positive COVID-19 case or cases have been identified, strict guidelines from the Municipal Public Health Department and the Provincial Department of Health are followed without fail. These include the decontamination of offices/workplaces and tools; the screening of colleagues who are contacts; a 14 day quarantine period; and the testing of those who are showing COVID-19 symptoms. It said ratepayers, stakeholders and residents at large are encouraged to use electronic and digital means of communication during this time to avoid unnecessary contact and overcrowding. Different communication methods and platforms are consistently advertised on the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Facebook and Twitter pages for your convenience. The Municipality calls on all residents and visitors within Nelson Mandela Bay to, wash their hands, wear a face mask, keep a social distance, don't attend gatherings and respect Lockdown Level 3 regulations. The above measures are the only practical and simple defence we have against the invisible COVID-19 pandemic. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 