 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Interim Executive Mayor Councillor Thsonono Buyeye led a site inspection to the Nooitgedagt Water Treatment Works in Addo on Wednesday where the last phase of the multi-million rand upgrades is progressing at a satisfactory rate. Following delays to the project which is funded by the Department of Water and Sanitation and implemented by the Amatola Water Board, Mayor Buyeye said he was satisfied to see work progressing well even after the COVID-19 lockdown delays. Mayor Buyeye was joined by Mayoral Committee Member Councillor Andile Lungisa who heads up the Infrastructure and Engineering directorate. The upgrades are part of the City’s various major efforts to deal with the drought disaster in the City. Phase 1 and 2 have been completed and they included upgrading of incoming Electrical Supply, Civil, Mechanical & Electrical Works for 6 new filters and Low Level Pump Station.  Mayor Buyeye said: “We wanted to check the progress of the project. We’ve been here a couple of times, we know what is happening but with the situation that is happening in the City when it comes to water issues, we wanted to make sure that there is work that is really happening.” “The key is to make sure that the amount of water we can extract from this scheme we maximise that to the fullest. That is why we have been pressing to make sure there must be movement, this phase 3 must be completed. There have been delays here and the delays have had nothing to do with us as this is funded by the National Department of Water and Sanitation through the Amatola Water Board." The Mayor said seeing the contractor on site was good news for the City as the project would assist the City in getting more water from the scheme. “The water situation in Nelson Mandela Bay is of concern to all of us. Water security in Nelson Mandela Bay is critical to our economic existence. The dam levels are a concern due to poor rainfall and high consumption rate. On completion of the work being done here, we are confident that we have water security for our people and economy,” he said. “But that does not mean people must waste water, it does not mean the department must not look after leaks which is a major contributing factor to water losses. We would love to see more as the City, we would love for us to be aggressive in making sure that all water leaks are attended to urgently so that no water is wasted when we are in such a situation that we are all in.”  Phase 3 of the upgrades to the 1990 development includes; Civil, Mechanical and Electrical Works for Clarifiers, 6 new filters, Clearwell and a Backwash Reservoir and R350million is the estimated cost for phase. The plant currently produces and treats an average of 140 Mega litres per day, while another 30 Mega litres is treated at the Grassridge Water Treatment Works plant. The project is expected to be completed in June 2021 and will produce a maximum of 210 Mega litres per day for the NMBM residents. Councillor Andile Lungisa urged residents to use water sparingly as the City was not out of the danger zone yet. He said: “Between now and June next year we should be fine if residents use water wisely. If they do not save water, we will be in trouble. We have been declared as a disaster area and that has not changed. So it’s important that residents save water.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 