 Uitenhage - In a bid to alleviate the negative impact of Covid-19 on the communities of Nelson Mandela Bay, Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA) has made various donations in support of schools and NGOs in the metro. Through the Volkswagen Community Trust, the company handed over a total of R340 000 on Friday to Masifunde, United Through Sport, Ubomi Obutsha Centre and the Thand'usana Babies Centre. These donations will be used by the various organisations to supply food and vouchers to about 350 needy families, as well as funding the care of abandoned babies at Thand'usana. In addition to this support, the Community Trust also handed over 50 000 meals to Mngcunube Primary School, Noninzi Luzipho Primary School, Ntlemeza Primary School, Vuba Primary School and James Ntungwana Primary School. The Community Trust has worked closely with these KwaNobuhle schools in the past in establishing literacy centres at the schools. The meals, which were packed by Rise Against Hunger, will be given to parents of Grade R learners at these schools. The schools also received 5 000 protective fabric face masks, which will be provided to the parents of learners. The masks were manufactured by Greater Uitenhage Sewing Cooperative (Gusco), a Uitenhage-based organisation that has partnered with VWSA during the Covid-19 crisis to manufacture thousands of fabric masks. The handover forms part of VWSA's ongoing efforts to combat Covid-19 in the metro. VWSA has been working closely with government, the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber and other businesses to bolster medical care in the metro. These efforts include a recent donation of 150 beds to the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium's isolation facility, the local manufacture of face masks in partnership with Gusco, and most notably the massive project of converting the company's plant in Port Elizabeth into an overflow facility for Covid-19 patients. "VWSA is part of the greater community of Nelson Mandela Bay. The plight caused by the Covid-19 pandemic to our community is also our plight," said VWSA Chairman and Managing Director Thomas Schaefer. "We have a responsibility to help our community where we can, whether it is through feeding hungry families or strengthening the medical care available in the metro. It is a responsibility that we have taken to heart, and we remain committed to the continuous, coordinated fight against Covid-19." Photo 1: L - R: Vuyiswe Mlengwene (Vuba Primary School), Victor Jonas (James Ntungwana Primary School), VWSA Chairman and Managing Director Thomas Schaefer, Dan Mavikela (Noninzi Luzipho Primary School), Volkswagen Community Trust manager Vernon Naidoo, Andile Funani (Ntlemeza Primary School), VWSA Head of Product Engineering Dr Joost Kessels, and Monwabisi Pepeta (Mngcunube Primary School). Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 