 Mthatha - The Engcobo Local Municipality on Sunday announced that its Mayor, Cllr Siyabulela Zangqa, had recovered from COVID-19. "This has been scientifically proven by the results of the re-testing conducted on the 10th of June," described Sivuyile Myeko, Manager - Communications at Engcobo Local Municipality. "Having completed the self-isolation period, the Mayor went for another test so as to be sure of his status before he joins the Ngcobo community he leads. "Now, he is ready to resume his responsibilities." Myeko said that the Engcobo Local Municipality has been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic, as it has three Councilors and 15 employees, who tested positive. "All the reported contacts have been traced and tested. The Municipality has arranged the testing of 100 employees and ten of those employees tested positive," he described. "Five of the 15 employees went for private lab testing. The Municipality has got one recovery. All those tested positive are in self-isolation, some at home and others in hospital. "The Municipality has opened all its offices as fumigation of offices and testing of employees has been done. "To those that are still trapped by this virus, the Municipality wishes to say, positive attitude and adherence to medical measures for self Isolation will make you overcome it." Myeko said that the institution and the Mayor thank the entire Ngcobo Community and stakeholders for the valuable support received since the outbreak of the virus in the municipality. "To the community at large, please continue to stay at home, wear masks, keep the social distance and periodical sanitise yourselves. Together we can work to flatten the Curve of the spread." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 