 Port Elizabeth - The Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA), an entity of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, on Friday teamed up with the Nelson Mandela University’s Visual Arts Department to deliver the first batch of a uniquely designed mask to Cape Racife School in Summerstrand. This initiative follows another delivery on Thursday 11th of June, at the Khulile Primary school in Motherwell, where the MBDA operated Science and Technology Centre provided over 300 items of World Health Organisation (WHO) compliant masks and sanitizers. Professor Pieter Binsbergen of the NMU, a member of the University’s Covid-19 responses says” Cape Recife School is the first stop to receive 100 masks and Covid-19 prevention information fliers as part of the #MaskUpMandela initiative supported through funding by the MBDA. It made sense for the University to start here, a neighbouring school for physically challenged learners. We must prioritise the most vulnerable in communities”. According to the school’s vision statement, 'Cape Recife High School strives to excel in providing quality education and support services for learners with special education needs, to empower them to lead meaningful lives as productive members of society, being well prepared for the future.' On hand to receive the masks was School Principal, Jacques Hugo who thanked the University and the MBDA for coming to the rescue with the important Covid-19 PPE. MBDA Spokesperson, Luvuyo Bangazi, said "The Agency is satisfied that the most deserving and most vulnerable are receiving support through the partnership with the University. Also important to us is the empowerment and capacitation of smaller enterprises inclusive development as we know that the masks were produced through a cooperative." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  