 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says that it has requested the Minister for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Nkoszana Dlamini-Zuma, to intervene and ensure that the Speaker of the Nelson Mandela Bay Council calls a special council meeting to elect an Executive Mayor. "On 8 June 2020 a petition, signed by the majority of councillors, was served on the Speaker and receipt thereof was acknowledged. The petition was also served on the Speaker, Cllr Buyelwa Mafaya, via email. The Sheriff served the petition on 9 June 2020," said DA Eastern Cape Leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "The Speaker is legally obliged to call this special council meeting – requested to take place on 25 June 2020. In spite of this we have received no confirmation of this. "I have written to the Minister and requested her intervention in ensuring that the Speaker attends to her lawful responsibility to call a council meeting on the requested date. "If the Speaker fails to call the meeting the signatories to the petition will go ahead with a council meeting on 25 June 2020." Bhanga said that he has also reminded the Minister that they have received no report from the Eastern Cape MEC for CoGTA, Xolile Nqatha, on the filling of the mayoral vacancy. "The Deputy Mayor, Cllr Tshonono Buyeye, is currently acting in this position as self-styled and unlawful 'Interim' Mayor. "The Municipal Structures Act clearly states that filling of a mayoral vacancy is obligatory and therefore council is prescribed by law to elect a Mayor. All decisions taken under an “Interim” Mayor can, therefore, possibly be seen as unlawful and subject to legal scrutiny," Bhanga said. "After the DA brought this issue to the attention of the Minister she wrote to the MEC on 5 June and instructed him to compile a report on the election of an Executive Mayor. MEC Nqatha was instructed to deliver this report within 7 days, but to date no report has been forthcoming. "Under the ANC-led coalition of corruption, the Metro has seen a massive decline in its financial stability and its ability to deliver basic services. The City is riddled with corruption and acts of criminality. "The DA will fight to ensure that prosperity returns to the Metro and that services are delivered and corruption stamped out." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 