 Port Elizabeth - The Provincial Organised Crime Investigation team in Port Elizabeth arrested a fourth suspect on Thursday in connection with the theft of truck tyres from a company during the early hours of the 14th of June this year. "It is alleged that during the early hours of the 15th of June, at about 03:00, Anti-Gang Unit members were stationary on the Addo Road in Motherwell when they noticed a blue Toyota Condor driving towards them with its lights off," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "As the vehicle approached the members, the driver of the bakkie switched on the lights. The vehicle was stopped and on searching the trailer attached to the bakkie, 10 brand new truck tyres worth R9 500 each were found. "The police officers were not satisfied with the driver’s explanation and the driver (35) and his two passengers, aged between 30-35 were detained on a charge of possession of suspected stolen property." It is further alleged that on the 15th of  June, at about 12:00, the manager of a business in Markman was notified that a trailer with 290 truck tyres, which was parked on the premises on the previous Friday, was no longer on the premises. "A case of theft of tyres was opened at SAPS Swartkops. The value of the tyres was R1,5 million." On the 15th of June, at about 21:00, a Detective Sergeant from SAPS Motherwell received information about a load of truck tyres at a house in Rose Lane in NU11 in Motherwell. "Immediately, the information was utilised and a task team comprising of SAPS Motherwell Detective, Crime Prevention, Community Service Centre and PE Flying Squad members swooped in on the house," said Col Naidu. "A total of 73 tyres were seized from a room as well as the garage of the house. Coincidentally, the house belongs to the driver of the blue Toyota Condor, who was arrested early in the morning. The total value of the recovered tyres was R788 500." On the 17th of June, police assisted by the management of the company followed up on information about a suspicious truck at the Coega harbour. "The truck used to hitch the trailer was confiscated by police. Further investigations, led police to a warehouse in Markman the same evening where four more tyres to the value of R38 000 were recovered," Col Naidu said. "During the early hours of Thursday morning, a 40-year-old security guard working at the company was also arrested and detained on a charge of theft of tyres. "He will appear in the Motherwell Magistrate's Court on Monday." Meanwhile, Lunga Solomon (35), Thamasanqa Sitemele (35) and Bongani Ngele (37) appeared in court on Wednesday for alleged involvement in the tyre theft. "Solomon remains in custody and will appear in court on the 25th of June for a formal bail application while Sitemele and Ngele were each released on R500 bail and will appear in court again on the 18th of September 2020," she added. "Further arrests are imminent." The Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has praised the investigation team and re-iterated that people buying suspected stolen property will be prosecuted if found in possession of such property. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 