 Kirkwood - The Sarah Baartman District Municipality hosted its first virtual council meeting on Friday. The current lockdown regulations and Covid-19 pandemic has led to the municipality conducting most of its meeting virtually to limit social contact. The Executive Mayor of Sarah Baartman District Municipality, Cllr Khunjuzwa Eunice Kekana, delivered the budget speech for the next municipal financial year starting on 01 July 2020 until 30 June 2021, during the council meeting. This is the third review of the municipality’s 5 year Integrated Development Plan (IDP). The Mayor spoke about the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the municipality and its communities. She said: “We will strive for economic recovery, job creation and sustainability to ensure that our district manages to come to terms with a new “normality” as soon as possible, and that the District mitigates the impact of Covid-19 on our key sectors such as tourism, local economic development and agriculture.” The Mayor reiterated the municipality’s commitment to the District Development Model which calls for all spheres of government to work together as one to ensure cohesion in service delivery. The municipality also remains committed to developing its local municipalities through providing the necessary support and assistance. Council adopted an overall operating budget of R164.2million with operating revenue of R164.2million and a capital budget of R5.1million. The Sarah Baartman District Municipality has achieved an unqualified audit report once again under difficult circumstances, thus indicating financial management excellence in the Sarah Baartman District Municipality. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 