 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature on Sunday confirmed its first case of Coronavirus after one of its staff members tested positive. "The Legislature community is informed that one of its employees has tested positive for the Coronavirus (Covid-19)," said Lwandile Sicwetsha, spokesperson to the Speaker of the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature, Helen Sauls-August. "We have established that the employee concerned has recently visited the Legislature to perform some urgent work relating to the procurement of Covid-19 related materials and has come into contact with other officials. "The official concerned was admitted in hospital and has on Sunday been discharged from hospital and she will self-isolate at home." The news came after the office of the Premier announced that Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, would self-quarantine while taking a second COVID-19 test after a member of his core staff tested positive for the virus. Sicwetsha said that the Department of Health and the Department of Labour has been informed accordingly and the Legislature is actively assisting in tracing the close contacts of the employee and encouraging them to self-quarantine and subject themselves to screening and testing. "As a precautionary measure, Members of the Legislature and employees will not be allowed into the Legislature precincts until further notice," he added. "This restriction also applies to the core staff that could render essential services during the lockdown. This is intended to expedite the process of decontamination before the Legislature is re-opened. "Further communication on the process to gradually re-open the Legislature will follow. "We call on all Members of the Legislature and staff to be ambassadors and spread the message of good hygiene as a measure for fighting this invisible enemy." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 