 Humansdorp - Swift police response by Humansdorp K9 and Jeffrey’s Bay police led to the arrest of four suspected stock thieves shortly after they loaded five sheep in a bakkie from a farm near Jeffrey’s Bay on Saturday. "At around 2:00, it is alleged that a farm owner contacted the police after he noticed suspicious people on his farm," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "Excellent teamwork between Humansdorp K9 and Jeffrey’s Bay police led to the arrest of the suspects travelling in a red Mazda Rustler bakkie on route R102 towards the direction of Jeffrey’s Bay. "On the back of the bakkie, police found five sheep with their legs tied with wires. A preliminary investigation led to the recovery of an additional nine sheep also tied and hidden near the farm. "Unfortunately, from the recovered stock of fourteen sheep, two were already dead. The estimated value of the stock is R53 800." The four suspects were arrested and a bakkie was confiscated for further investigation. The four men, aged between 20 and 50, were detained for stock theft with an additional charge of contravening the Disaster Management Act, and are expected to appear in the Humansdorp Magistrates’ Court on Monday. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended the members for the recovery and success. "We continue to discourage those who buy stolen meat, thus creating a supply and demand structure for stock theft. Police will have no option but to arrest the seller and the buyer for being an accessory to commit crime," warned Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  