 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Interim Executive Mayor Cllr Thsonono Buyeye conducted an inspection visit at one of the Cooperatives manufacturing facial masks to fight COVID-19 in Motherwell on Friday. During his visit at the Simengempumelelo Primary Cooperative, Mayor Buyeye issued a stern warning to local businesses that more inspections would be conducted by the Metro Police to check if everyone was complying with COVID-19 regulations. The Mayor’s visit formed part of the Metro’s intensified law enforcement programme to fight against COVID-19. “We are happy about what we have seen here: they are manufacturing excellent facial masks, in line with the required COVID-19 specifics, which state that cloth masks should be three layered. Of course there are challenges that they are experiencing like any other business, which include limited working space, but they have made sure that not everyone is squashed into one space and have kept some workers at home,” the Mayor said. Although Simengempumelelo Primary Cooperative produces a variety of products, including clothing, the Cooperative is currently producing and supplying facial masks to businesses, SASSA, Social Development and residents to intensify the fight against COVID-19. Following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s declaration of COVID-19 pandemic as a National State of Disaster, the Economic Development, Tourism and Agriculture (EDTA) Directorate in the NMBM has identified Cooperatives as essential contributing partners in assisting the country to combat the virus. Currently, the EDTA is implementing swift interventions to support small businesses that manufacture critically essential products, such as hygiene, medical and food items. The aim is to create a more conducive and business-friendly environment, where there is capacity to streamline business support services. Mayor Buyeye said that Cooperatives are the vehicle to be used to reduce unemployment and poverty in the City. “What we see today, is encouraging. The money that the Municipality has invested in Cooperatives is paying dividends, as they are producing quality products. We would love to see them operating in a bigger venue and creating more employment opportunities. "We are obligated to promote the potential of Cooperatives in all wards in the NMBM, irrespective of their level of development. As we are moving to COVID-19 alert level 3, the economy of the city needs to run. More companies will resume operations and we want to make sure that the curve of this virus is flattened in Nelson Mandela Bay”, Cllr Buyeye concluded. Chairperson of the Cooperative, Given Pama, committed to adhering to COVID-19 regulations. “We have been working and keeping social distancing and have reduced the staff capacity. I want to encourage young people to stand up and create their own businesses so that when we die, they will be able to feed their loved ones." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 