 Port Elizabeth - Police retirement is something special especially when the time comes to experience a fulfilling life derived from many enjoyable and rewarding activities. "One could hardly believe that after 40 years of dedicated service to the South African Police Service, the day has finally come that we must bid farewell to a leader, mentor and colleague, Maj Gen Dawie Rabie who last served as the Motherwell Cluster Commander," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. He officially retires on 30 June 2020. "It is with mixed feelings that we bid bon voyage as it’s a sad and yet at the same time a happy moment as we wish everything of the best as he embarks on another chapter of his life which is retirement." Col Naidu said that Maj Gen Rabie served in many Provinces starting his career in Knysna in 1980. He worked in the Western Cape, Gauteng Province, and National Head Office as well as at various departments and stations including the Provincial office in the Eastern Cape. "His vast knowledge and insight in specific crimes especially the gang environment have impacted widely within the communities. "For those colleagues that knew him, it is emphatic to say that he has proven to be resilient in the face of any challenge and ran the race and succeeded in reaching his goal," she added. "He has always carried out his duties with integrity, dedication and commitment. His career has been nothing short of inspirational, his work ethics have been nothing short of motivational, and his demeanour at work have been nothing short of professional and as his career comes to an end, it is hoped that his influence will continue. "Countless lives have been impacted by the knowledge he has imparted. The path trodden by police officers is never an easy one and he had demonstrated his dedication, passion and love for the organisation." On Friday, police officers in Nelson Mandela Bay demonstrated their appreciation to him by honouring him with a motorcade parade and a farewell function. The Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga also paid tribute by personally visiting the metro to bid farewell to one of her best senior manager’s in the Province. "Your career in the SAPS has been a success and you leave behind a legacy that many of us can aspire to.  You are a man of your word who does what you say and your knowledge and experience will be sorely missed," she said. "You are a person who spoke sense and never undermined authority. You are a disciplinarian and never advocated mediocrity. "The train that has taken you to the police college in 1980 is now back after 40 years to take you to the land of retirement, a new chapter in your life, a rest well deserved." And in the quiet of your heart, may you hear God softly say ……..’My good and faithful servant, I’m so proud of you this day!’ Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 