 Port Elizabeth - An intelligence-driven, multi-disciplinary operation resulted in the arrest of a 33-year-old Kleinskool man and the confiscation of thousands of mandrax tablets and tik. "It is alleged that on Friday evening, at about 22:30, the team swooped in on a house in Liberation Street in Kleinskool," police said. "The house was thoroughly searched and 7 585 mandrax tablets, as well as 303,95 grams of tik, were confiscated. "The total estimated value of the mandrax is R 379 250 and the tik is R32 000. "Members from PE Public Order Policing arrested the owner of the house. An LDV Corsa bakkie, cellphones and a computer hard drive was also seized for further investigation."   He will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday on a charge of dealing in drugs. SAPS Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has welcomed this successful drug bust and stated that the illegal possession of firearms and drugs is a growing concern especially in the Northern Areas and it is a fact that participation in the drug markets is known to be linked to gangs. "We cannot and will not stand back and allow our neighbourhoods to be controlled by violent thugs. The strong stance taken by police is a warning to drug peddlers that we will not allow them to ply their trade among innocent and law-abiding citizens whose lives are at risk every day. "We will be resolute in making sure that these offenders are deprived of the proceeds of crime. We urge the communities to stand together with the police in our efforts to create a safe and secure environment for all,’ added Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 