 Port Elizabeth - The establishment of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Disaster Management Advisory Forum last Monday and lengthy planning meetings that includes scenario planning prior to the lockdown announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa, put us in good stead to face our toughest hurdle succesfully. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Interim Executive Mayor Thsonono Buyeye made this statement after a Mayoral Committee where the institution’s contingency plans to ensure the provision of unbroken essential service was tabled and adopted. “It is during times of difficulties that the characters of strong men and women are tested. I am confident that we are up to the challenge to do our civic duty to safeguard our communities and especially the most vulnerable. “To avoid long lines of panic-stricken residents queueing to pay their accounts to avoid their pre-payment electricity meters to be blocked, we decided to unblock all accounts to enable electricity purchases during the lockdown period. “However, as soon as the lockdown ends, all those with unresolved account enquiries will have to sort out their accounts. “In fact, the drastic measures imposed shows how serious government is about the protection of the elderly, people with weakened immune systems and those suffering from pre-existing conditions. “Our teams are currently busy with the identification of quarantine sites and plans are at an advanced stage to ensure that homeless people are accommodated in compliance with the President’s decree last night. “Essential services personnel identified by national government and those directly responsible for fighting the scourge that reached more than 300 000 infections internationally, will continue to work during the lockdown period. “The safety of our employees responsible to ensure that electricity supply remain in place, water is accessible to all and emergency services are in place – also remain of paramount importance. “Procurement processes are in place to buy more protective clothing and equipment for first responders and employees to do their jobs without putting their own safety and that of their families at risk,” Mayor Buyeye said. Until directives from national government request otherwise the following services are considered essential: Water services, electricity, sanitation, Traffic, Metro Police, Fire and Emergency services, Fleet Services, Wellness Centre, Refuse collection, laboratory, Disaster Management and support services. A dedicated webpage on the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality website (www.nelsonmandelabay. gov.za/page/disaster- management-advisory-forum- covid-19) has been established to share numerous aspects of the Nelson Mandela Bay Disaster Management response to the pandemic. For more information go to www.sacoronavirus.co.za, the national helpline 0800 029 999 or whatsapp 060 012 3456. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 