 Jeffreys Bay - In line with national safety precautions against the spread of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) the Kouga Local Municipality would like to discourage residents from visiting municipal buildings. Municipal halls and sportsfields will, furthermore, be closed to the public for at least the next four weeks while the East Cape Department of Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture has also ordered that all libraries be closed. "Residents and visitors are encouraged to make use of the municipality's telephonic and electronic systems to pay their accounts, as well as for account and service-related queries," Kouga Executive Mayor Horatio Hendricks said. He said while the municipality's daily operations would continue, strict access control would be applied at municipal buildings. "This is necessary for the safety of both our staff and the public. We regret the inconvenience, but it is an essential safety precaution in these extraordinary times," he said. Details on how to make electronic payments are printed on municipal accounts. Account queries with regards to service charges (water, sewer, refuse and electricity) can be emailed to lmqina@kouga.gov.za or yjayiya@kouga.gov.za. Property rates and tax-related queries can be emailed to rbrown@kouga.gov.za Alternatively, phone the municipality's account section on 042 200 2200. Account balance queries, service requests and complaints can be directed to the Kouga Call Centre on 042 200 2200 (option 4) or reported through the Link service delivery app. The Link Powered by Vodacom app can be downloaded for free from Google Play or the App Store and then used to connect with the municipality. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 