 Mthatha - The Head of the District Disaster Command Council, the Executive Mayor Cllr. T Sokanyile, on Sunday, advised communities, stakeholders and individuals that, on the 30th and 31st of March 2020 only old age and disability grant beneficiaries will be allowed as passengers in our buses and minibus taxis to enter the nine towns of the district. Cllr. Sokanyile said: “The aim is to ensure that all beneficiaries of social grants particularly elderly people and people living with disabilities get their social grants as early as possible without any stampede that might pose a health and security risks. Supermarkets, pharmacist, banks and other essential services have been requested to open at 7am on these dates to allow easy flow of operations.” The District Disaster Operation Centre wishes to inform and alert communities that only people with permits IDs and SASSA cards will be allowed to come to town on the stipulated dates. The South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) announced that the child support grant will be paid on the 1st of April 2020. Beneficiaries are encouraged to come to town only when they need to buy necessary goods. All 163 pay points within O.R. Tambo District Municipality will be paid on the 3rd of April 2020 to the 17th. These pay points are to adhere to all the measures of hygiene control and social distancing. "We wish to reiterate to all the people of O.R Tambo that, they must stay at home, exercise social distancing, wash their hands with soap water regularly, exercise as much hygiene controls as possible and keep healthy during this period." Buses and minibus taxis will start operating from 5am – 8pm from Monday 30 March 2020 to Friday 3rd April 2020. "If we all adhere to the rules as articulated by the President and subsequent government gazettes, we will overcome this pandemic. The district is exercising all these stringent measures to minimise person to person contact, ensure that social distancing is applied and all possibilities that can lead to easy transmission of this pandemic are prevented." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  