 East London - On Thursday, Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, is expected, together with Eastern Cape Health MEC, Sindiswa Gomba, to conduct a site visit to the National Health Laboratory Services facility in East London and Frere Hospital, one of the facilities that have been identified to be used for quarantining Coronavirus patients by the province. "At the present moment, there is no individual that has tested positive for Coronavirus in the Eastern Cape province," Mabuyane said on Wednesday. "However, this does not mean the provincial government must fold its arms and do nothing. The Provincial government continue to put in place measures to respond to the Coronavirus pandemic. "The priority focus of the provincial government is to intensify prevention of infections and the spread of the virus in the province." He added that the measures we communicated on Monday continue being implemented by all spheres of government departments. "The Local Government sphere is also establishing structures of coordination similar to the national and provincial structures and Mayors will lead the work of local government. We are devolving this intervention into Municipal Wards where we are using the Operation Masiphathisane war rooms." The Premier added that the Eastern Cape Provincial Government has activated all structures of government to coordinate the province’s intervention to this pandemic and "we are working with all sectors in the province to synchronise our response to protect the people of the province". "We want to emphasize that any person who has travelled to and from countries that are affected by this pandemic must go to their nearest health facility to test. This test will help the individuals to know their health status and such will also help the province to better manage the intervention to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus," he described. "The Provincial government is engaging national government, sectoral organizations such as civil society, faith-based organizations, traditional leaders, businesses with the purpose of understanding their plans and processes to mitigate the spread of the Coronavirus in the province." Mabuyane said that the Executive Council of the Provincial Government will hold a special meeting on Friday, 20 March 2020, in Bhisho to take stock of the work that is being done by the national, provincial government departments and receive reports from MECs about the work being done by sectors within their portfolios to prevent the spread of the virus in the Eastern Cape province. "The Executive Council meeting will look at report to be submitted by departments on the work currently being done, issues of financial resources to finance the provincial intervention program that is driven by the Provincial Command Centre led by the Premier," he said. "We will inform the people of the province about the status of our program after this Executive council meeting through a press conference that will be held on Friday afternoon in Bhisho. "We call on the people of the province not to be complacent because we don’t have a person who has tested positive for the Coronavirus in the province as yet. Measures to prevent the spread of this virus remain in place and we encourage all the people of the province to continue implementing each of those measures." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 