 Port Elizabeth - Khulasande Sports Development has welcomed the support of African Bank who will sponsor sports kits for three of the beneficiary schools that will participate in the Grassroots Youth Development Winter Sports League. This is a youth development programme that will commence in April 2020 and have 15 schools from Port Elizabeth, Grahamstown, Komga and surrounding areas of the Eastern Cape participate in well-organised and supervised recreational programmes. The Khulasande Sports Development Winter League programme is all about bridging the sports development gap that exists and nurturing the talent and skills in previously disadvantaged areas by focusing on the winter sporting codes of soccer, rugby, netball and cross country. One of the main goals behind implementing the league is to give the learners an opportunity to play against other schools because there are no competitive leagues available in their areas, particularly the schools in remote areas of the Eastern Cape. Mr. Kennedy Dembetembe, African Bank National Corporate Social Investment Manager shared, “African Bank is proud to have this opportunity to collaborate with an inspirational NPO such Khulasande Sports Development, who is providing us with a platform to remind our youth to believe in themselves.” Mr. Dembetembe further added, “With this investment, we hope to motivate future leaders by instilling a sense of personal pride in the youth, pride in their schools as well as African Bank. Experience has shown us time and time again that kids in new kit play with renewed confidence and vigour.” By adopting a holistic approach to the development of the children, Khulasande Sports Development not only focuses on the athletic aspect of their development but also places a strong emphasis on academic development as well as teaching life skills using sport. "In addition to the coaching clinics, Khulasande Sports Development also provides beneficiaries with the opportunity to participate in sports festivals and athletics competitions ensuring that they gain maximum exposure to training and competing in their chosen sports. Founder and Managing Director of Khulasande Sports Development, Mr. Thobela Thoba shared, “We are humbled by the support shown to Khulasande Sports Development by African Bank. "We hope that their belief in our vision will encourage other organisations to join us and make the GYD Khulasande Winter Sports League a huge success for our youth by pledging support and sponsoring one or more of our beneficiary schools.” Mr. Thoba further noted, “Thank you African Bank for leading the way and walking your talk – ‘Together, is the African Bank way.’” Image:Mr. Kennedy Dembetembe, African Bank National Corporate Social Investment Manager and Founder and Managing Director of Khulasande Sports Development, Mr. Thobela Thoba look forward to a fruitful collaboration that will benefit the Khulasande Sport Winter League youth participants. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 