 Port Elizabeth - The World Health Organization (WHO) has launched a messaging service – WHO Health Alert - with partners, WhatsApp and Facebook to keep people safe from Coronavirus. This easy-to-use messaging service has the potential to reach two billion people and enables WHO to get information directly into the hands of the people that need it. The service can be accessed through a link (http://bit.ly/who-covid19-whatsapp) that opens a conversation on WhatsApp. Users can simply type “hi” to activate the conversation, prompting a menu of options that can help answer their questions about COVID-19. From government leaders to health workers and family and friends, this messaging service will provide the latest news and information on coronavirus including details on symptoms and how people can protect themselves and others. It also provides the latest situation reports and numbers in real time to help government decision-makers protect the health of their populations. The WHO Health Alert was developed in collaboration with Praekelt.Org, using Turn (www.Turn.io) machine learning technology. Closer to home, South Africans can access all the information on COVID-19 in the country, on the South African resource portal on https://sacoronavirus.co.za/. Similarly, South Africans can text “hi” to the WhatsApp Support Line: 0600-123456 to activate the conversation. For emergencies, the public can call the Emergency Hotline: 0800 029 999. Meanwhile, government has set up a website for everyone to access. This is so you can receive up to date information about the Coronavirus. You do not have to use any data or airtime to access it. Go to your search engine and type in coronavirus.datafree.co to find out all you need to know. – additional reporting SAnews.gov.za Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 