 East London - Construction work will be a feature of the East London beachfront as the City officially kicked off development on Friday. The Buffalo City Metro together with its Development Agency launched two flagship projects in a private function. Buffalo City Metro Executive Mayor Cllr Xola Pakati together with members of the Agency Board turned soil using spades on the piece of land earmarked for construction. "The launch kicks off works of the Water World Fun Park in Ward 46 and the Court Crescent Recreational Park in Ward 47 (in front of Osner Hotel)," the municipality said "The beachfront project is estimated R87 million and it’s estimated to be finished over a 18 months." It also said that construction at Water World has already begun the official launch. "This follows the handover of the construction sites to the appointment contractor on 12 February 2020 by the Buffalo City Development Agency," the municipality described. "The launch was not open to the public and was strictly by invitation only as per the undertakings of the country and the Municipality to limit and ban public gatherings."    The Court Crescent Recreational Parkis project is one of two major developments being undertaken by the Buffalo City Metro Development Agency with the other being the Water World Fun Park. According to the Metro, the Court Crescent Recreational Park is a centrally land parcel that occupies a prime space of the East London beachfront on the Esplanade. "The property is approximately 2.4 hectors and is entirely owned by the BCMM," it said. "The Court Crescent Project forms part of a broader BCMDA Integrated Beach Management Programme. "Specifically, the project constitutes a significant component of the East London Beachfront Precinct Plan and is the first such project to kick start this programme." The East London Beachfront Precinct Plan aims to integrate space and improve open spaces in the beachfront with the view of promoting tourism and creating a conducive environment for crowding in further investment into the space. The beachfront project is worth R87 million and it’s estimated to be constructed over a 18 months period. The project will include construction of some of the following features: Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 