 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Tuesday condemned the heated exchange that led to members of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) being removed from the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature ahead of his 2020 Eastern Cape State of the Province Address (SOPA). "The conduct of the members of the provincial legislature (MPLs) Representing the EFF together with the EFF members who threw dangerous objects at the MPLs, stormed into the Raymond Mhlaba Chamber and attacked some of the members of the staff of the legislature was a crime and violent anarchy that is not good for our democracy," said Mabuyane. "I condemn this anarchy, violent conduct and behaviour by the MPLs representing the EFF who led the violent attack of the employees of the Eastern Cape Legislature. "It is important for the leadership of the Eastern Cape Legislature to restore the decorum of the house by ensuring that such violence does not occur at the legislature, especially inside the chamber." The Premier said that at the time when the rowdy group of EFF supporters threw dangerous objects into the Chamber where members of the legislature were sitting, ran down the stairs into the chamber where together with their MPLs attacked workers of the legislature, the SAPS was supposed to prevent this violence to protect all Members of the Provincial Legislature that were inside the Chamber. "The failure by the SAPS to respond swiftly to the violence occurring inside a national key point resulted into the attack of the workers of the legislature and put lives of other members of the legislature at risk. "I brought our concern, disappointment and displeasure at the failure of the SAPS to protect members of the legislature by stopping this violence from occurring to the leadership of the SAPS," he added. "It is disappointing that SAPS members deployed to the legislature dropped the ball by failing to prevent the rowdy EFF members and their MPLs from committing this crime inside the legislature’s Chamber. "The provincial government will work with the legislature to deal with this violence. All those that were involved in this violent act, including the MPLs representing the EFF, must be arrested and be charged for their crime." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 