 East London - Eskom implemented Stage 2 load shedding on Tuesday morning and said it expects that load shedding may continue for the rest of the week. Eskom says there have been delays in returning some generation units that were expected to return to service yesterday. They will now only return during the course of the week. This has put additional pressure on the system and necessitated a continuation of load shedding. The teams are hard at work returning the units to service. “As the ageing fleet is currently constrained, unpredictable and vulnerable, we advise South Africans that the stage of load shedding may change at short notice should there be any unexpected change in the generation system performance. Demand has also incrementally risen since January. “It is only through partnership between Eskom and all stakeholders that we may soon emerge from these difficult times. “We urge every South African to co-operate in managing electricity consumption with care to help us minimise load shedding. We thank you for co-operation and understanding so far,” Eskom said. Unplanned breakdowns or outages were at 11 386MW as at 6:55 this morning and planned maintenance outages are at 5 340MW. Customers are requested to continue to use electricity sparingly and to assist Eskom to reduce demand: “We appeal to customers to revisit their load shedding schedules on the Eskom website, (https://loadshedding.eskom.co.za) or local municipal websites, depending on their electricity supplier, to review amendments,” Eskom said. - SAnews.gov.za Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 