 Port Elizabeth - The Sustainable Seas Trust has announced the postponement of its international conference scheduled to take place in Port Elizabeth during April 2020 due to the global spread of the Coronavirus. The Towards Zero Plastics to the Seas of Africa Conference would have seen at least 350 international, national and local delegates in attendance – with some coming from Africa, Asia, Australia, America and Europe. “Sustainable Seas Trust and its Board of Trustees feel that safeguarding the health of all who attend the conference must take precedence over all other considerations. Postponing the conference until it is safer to travel is the responsible thing to do,” said Mrs Sharné Woods, Head of Communications of Sustainable Seas Trust. As Africa is the second-most polluted continent with its population set to double by 2050, plastic and other waste is predicted to grow more rapidly in Africa than anywhere else in the world. This conference aims to provide a platform that will contribute best practice recommendations for possible inclusion in the evolving regional and national action plans within various parts of Africa. All speakers, facilitators and participants will be geared towards finding solutions towards zero plastics to the seas of Africa. “We have not taken this decision lightly. We have thoroughly consulted our International Advisory Panel and government authorities, including the National Institute for Communicable Diseases and United Nations’ Environmental Programme,” Woods continued. This will be a topflight conference for government officials, business, academia, civil society, importantly youth and more, focusing on practical solutions and action plans to reduce plastics, and other waste, from entering the seas of Africa and beyond. “Most of our international speakers and delegates have responded positively to the news as they were anxious about travel, especially those who had to get to South Africa via countries which have high infection rates of COVID-19. All speakers and delegates already registered have indicated that they wish to participate in the conference when a new date has been set,” Woods concluded. A new date will be set for a time when global travel is less restricted. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 