 Port Elizabeth - Expanding their efforts to strengthen education in the Eastern Cape, Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA) handed over much-needed first aid kits to 100 schools in Nelson Mandela Bay on Thursday. The handover, which was held at Piet Retief Primary School in Port Elizabeth, was linked to the company's Touareg Sabbatical initiative, which offered South Africans support to make a difference. The first Touareg Sabbatical winner, Dr Rufaro Nyamuda, seized the opportunity to launch the Keep Safe app to assist teachers and learners with first aid and other critical healthcare needs. VWSA chose to further support Dr Nyamuda's vision by equipping schools in the metro to administer first aid, as many of these schools did not have basic first aid kits before. "This was unacceptable, and a serious problem that we as Volkswagen couldn't ignore," said Thomas Schaefer, Volkswagen Group South Africa Chairman and Managing Director. "With the assistance of Dr Nyamuda, we have sourced first aid kits. We will also offer each school basic first aid training, to equip the nominated first aiders to administer first aid and provide basic healthcare for learners." "I am immensely grateful to VWSA for responding to the needs of the community," said Dr Nyamuda. "If we can get more companies like VWSA to do this, I am sure we can make a real difference in this country." The Department of Education's director for the Port Elizabeth district, Earnest Gorgonzola, also thanked VWSA for their contribution to local schools. "I understand why our district is a leading district in the province," said Gorgonzola. "With great partners like you, I firmly believe we are on the right track to fixing education issues." Schaefer thanked Dr Nyamuda for drawing VWSA's attention to the healthcare problems in schools. "We are hopeful that this small act of giving will go a long way in making a difference at our schools," concluded Schaefer. Photo Caption: From left: Department of Education district director Earnest Gorgonzola, Volkswagen Group South Africa Chairman and Managing Director Thomas Schaefer, and Touareg Sabbatical winner Dr Rufaro Nyamuda. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 