 Port Elizabeth - Pursuant to the statement by the President of the Republic, Mr Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday 15th March, the MBDA will as of Tuesday implement contingency measures to limit the risks relating to the spread of COVID-19. "The MBDA has established robust management controls and information technology systems that enable employees to be productive offsite, with efficient monitoring and reporting tools at their disposal," described spokesperson, Luvuyo Bangazi. MBDA COVID-19 responsive measures include: 1. A task team has been established to monitor and advise management. 2. Postponing or scaling down planned events at the Tramways building. 3. Temporary shutdown of the Nelson Mandela Bay Science & Technology Centre. 4. Liaising with relevant Rugby and Football authorities regarding NMB Stadium matches. 5. Postponing or scaling down of non-bowl NMB Stadium events. 6. Monitoring and tracking of staff utilizing public transport to work. 7. Permission granted to relevant employees to work off site. The following events have cancelled or postponed indefinitely: "The MBDA realizes the possible impact the spread of COVID-19 would have on operations and achievements of performance targets, hence the implementation of taking these proactive measures," Bangazi said. "As the President had mentioned, the health and wellbeing of all employees must be of paramount importance. "Having said that, day to day operations will continue with reduced staff on a rotational basis. Stakeholders are advised to rather contact the MBDA via telephone on 041 811 8200 and will be directed to the relevant personnel, this in order to limit visitations to the Tramways building." He said that the MBDA urges all citizens to take the necessary precautionary measures currently being circulated on all platforms and to remain vigilant in the prevention of the spreading of the COVID-19 virus. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 