 East London - Following violent student protests at several universities in the Eastern Cape, the Executive Council of the Eastern Cape Provincial government took a decision to explore mechanisms to assist university students that owe fees to various Universities in the province and to rollout a University focused campus safety program to eradicate crime and violence in universities. "The Executive Council appointed an inter-ministerial committee made up of Mr Fundile David Gade, the MEC responsible for Education, Mrs Weziwe Tikana Gxothiwe, MEC responsible for Transport, Safety and Liaison," described Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane's spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha. STUDENT DEBT He said that the task of the IMC is to engage the leadership, stakeholders of all Universities and TVET colleges to get the details of the students owing universities, especially those that are in the missing middle and some students that did not qualify for the NFSAS assistance. "Government will use the data and information from Universities to plan its response to help both students and Universities to address the issues of debts to avoid financial exclusion of students because of their debts," Sicwetsha added. "With regards to the issues of student debt, the Executive Council will identify funds within its purse that were earmarked for skills levy, skills development, training and bursaries that are still available to attend the student debt problem." CAMPUS SAFETY Sicwetsha also said that after receiving a report about the wave of crime and violence in the campuses of Universities and TVET colleges in the province, the Executive Council tasked the two MECs to rollout a campus focused Campus Safety plan to protect students, employees of the institution, workers representing service providers working at the Institutions by eradicating crime and violence. "The IMC will coordinate all law enforcement agencies of government in their work with the institutions of higher learning in the implementation and rollout of the Campus Safety plan," he described. "Engagements with the institutions have started and the shutdown of campuses is affecting the rolling out of the Campus Safety plans. "The provincial government is calling on all stakeholders in the Universities and TVETs to work with the IMC to develop solutions to the challenges facing these institutions of higher learning as soon as possible." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 