 Alice - The University of Fort Hare on Saturday announced the death of a male student after he was allegedly injured in an altercation with another student in one of the university's residences. "It is with a great sense of sadness that the university announces the passing of another Alice-based male student," said Tandi Mapukata, Director - Institutional Advancement. "On Saturday last week, Siphumle Nazo was allegedly hit on the head with an iron bar by a fellow male student at Marikana Residence. "He was rushed to Victoria Hospital in Alice where he was later transferred to Frere Hospital in East London.  Sadly, this morning he succumbed to his injuries.  The university is in contact with the family." Mapukata added that a fellow student, [name withheld], was arrested immediately. "He remains in custody at the Alice Police StationThe university will monitor the case and at the appropriate time, applicable disciplinary process will be meted out according to university policy." This is the 3rd student death on the Alice campus since the beginning of 2020. "Management would like to take this opportunity to send heartfelt condolences to Mr Nazo’s family as well as the university community at large," Mapukata added. "We wish them courage during this dark hour.  A range of support services will be provident to the family as per university policy. "The university is doing all in its powers to discourage student-on-student violence,  and is in consultation with provincial authorities to devise methodologies to improve campus safety and prevent acts of violence on university property." Mapukata said that the matter is now in the hands of the police and further enquiries should be directed to the Alice Police Station. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 