 Bhisho - The Executive Council of the Eastern Cape Provincial Government took a decision to continue supporting families of the 25 people, who were killed when the bus they were travelling on rolled into an embankment in Centanelast week. Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane established an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) led by Transport, Safety and Liaison MEC, Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe, which includes Health MEC, Sindiswa Gomba, Social Development MEC, Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi and COGTA MEC, Xolile Nqatha. The Premier's Spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha, said that the IMC was tasked with coordinating provision of emergency support to the injured passengers, help families of the people that died as a result of this bus accident and to coordinate local government services as part of the support given to those affected. "During the EXCO meeting MEC Tikana Gxothiwe tabled a detailed report about this bus accident to the Executive Council. The EXCO noted that government was still conducting a full investigation looking at what caused this bus accident," he described. "On behalf of the Eastern Cape Provincial Government and the people of the province, the Executive Council sends its heartfelt condolences to the families that lost their loved because of this bus accident." Sicwetsha added that the Executive Council welcomed the support given by first responders to the victims of this accident. As part of the support to the families of the victims of this bus accident, the IMC brought all government services from counselling services, forensic services, pathology services, emergency medical services, Road Accident Fund, Home Affairs, a Mobile Police Station to help families that lost their loved ones and those injured by the bus accident. "Majority of the people who died because of this bus accident were elderly pensioners, young children earning grants and some were not employed," he said. "The Executive Council resolved to continue providing support to the families of the 25 people that died as they prepare for the funeral services of their loved ones. "Government is talking with the families of the 25 deceased people to consider a mass memorial service or a mass funeral service for the people who were killed by this bus during the accident. The outcome of these talks will be communicated by government to the people of the province so that the public can join the service." Sicwetsha further said that the IMC will continue working with and supporting families of the people who died during this bus accident and those who were injured. "Once more, the provincial government sends its heartfelt condolences to the families who lost their loved ones during this bus accident." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 