 Queenstown - The Eastern Cape Provincial Government’s Executive Council has resolved to meet with the leaders representing Let’s Talk Komani, and the TROIKA of the Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality as part of providing support to the Municipality to improve its functionality and provision of services to the community. The Premier of the Eastern Cape Province Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane will on Sunday lead the provincial government’s team which will include Finance, Dedeat MEC, Mlungisi Mvoko, COGTA MEC, Xolile Nqatha, senior officials from COGTA and provincial Treasury. "Premier Mabuyane will first hold a meeting with the Enoch Mgijima local municipality’s troika (Mayor, Speaker, Chief Whip) to inform them about the decision of the Executive Council to provide support to the municipality to enable it to provide sustainable services to the people of Enoch Mgijima," described the Premier’s Spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha. "The provincial government will work closely with the municipality and stakeholders to address financial, community and corporate services challenges chocking the municipality’s ability to provide services to communities. "This support will help the Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality to implement the financial recovery plan to address the current challenges facing the municipality. "The first round of talks between Let’s Talk Komani and the Provincial government took place in the recent weeks and laid a foundation for an intervention that will allow both government and Let’s Talk Komani to implement the existing MOU signed by both parties to support the municipality to provide sustainable services to the local community. " Sicwetsha said that the provincial government goes into this meeting optimistic that there will be an agreement with all parties to work together in taking the municipality out of its current challenges so that it can function as required by the constitution, serve the people better, collect revenue to be able to finance provision of services to the community. "In responding to similar challenges experienced by other municipalities in the province, the provincial government, working together with the national government, is exploring mechanisms to provide intensive section 154 support by bringing resources needed to support all struggling municipalities." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 