 Jeffresy Bay - As a measure to curb the spread of the Coronavirus, the Kouga Municipality on Sunday announced measures limiting the use of public spaces and facilities. "Kouga Municipality has put measures in place to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) in its public spaces and facilities. This follows the announcement of the national State of Disaster by President Cyril Ramaphosa on 15 March 2020," it said. These measures are as follows: BEACHES & OTHER PUBLIC SWIMMING AREAS No swimming is allowed at beaches and other public swimming areas. Please note that beaches are still open. Beachgoers are, however, cautioned to maintain social distancing (stay at least 2m away from each other please). CEMETERIES During funerals, communities are encouraged to limit the number of mourners to family members only or to restrict the mourners to no more than 50 at the cemetery. Mourners should keep to burial time slots to prevent delays in accessing the cemetery. COMMUNITY HALLS AND SPORTSFIELDS All municipal halls and sportsfields are closed for public use until further notice. EVENTS AND MARKETS Approval for all events and markets has been revoked until further notice. Where markets or functions of any kind have been arranged for private venues, organisers are reminded that in terms of the national State of Disaster declaration all gatherings of more than 100 people have been prohibited. INFORMAL SETTLEMENTS Extra communal taps are being installed at informal settlements. A joint health awareness drive will further take place at all informal settlements in the Kouga region from 23 March to 4 April 2020 so as to advise households on how they can avoid contracting and spreading the coronavirus. The drive will be conducted by Kouga Municipality and the Kouga Local Service Area (LSA) of the East Cape Department of Health. LIBRARIES AND MUSEUMS All municipal libraries and museums are closed, as per the directive of the East Cape Department of Sports, Recreation, Arts & Culture. PUBLIC PARKS Access to parks will be monitored. Those making use of these facilities are reminded to maintain social distancing (stay at least 2m away from each other) PUBLIC TRANSPORT Meetings have been held with local taxi associations to advise them on the safety precautions they need to follow in order to minimise the risk of the coronavirus infecting their staff and commuters. Further engagements will be held with taxi operators and commuters as part of the joint health awareness drive from 23 March to 4 April. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 