 Bhisho - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday said that Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, must break radio silence and share the province’s plans to deal with the Coronavirus outbreak in the Eastern Cape. "While the Democratic Alliance welcomes the plans the Premier is putting in place to alleviate the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown on the provincial economy once the lockdown is over, there has been very little forthcoming about what the province is doing to deal with the pandemic from a health perspective over the coming weeks," said Jane Cowley (MPL), Shadow MEC for Health. "I have written to the Premier and Health MEC, Sindiswa Gomba, to call on them to communicate their plans and the challenges with the public. "The disease is already in its second phase in the province, it is no longer only imported by travellers, but now includes clustered transmission. This means that phase three, local transmission, and phase four, widespread community transmission, are not far off." Cowley said that information is vital when confronted with a disease of this magnitude. "Sadly, information and communication from the Premier and the Provincial Department of Health has been severely lacking," she added. "This pandemic will affect all of us. It is not politically aligned and knows no racial, religious or socio-economic boundaries. We all have the right to know what plans are in place to fight it." Cowley added that the Premier and MEC must regularly communicate on the following: "I believe that the next two to three weeks will be critical in our fight against the pandemic. All communities, be they business or the private sector, have a huge role to play going forward, but everybody must be kept informed if they are going to be called upon to assist in the fight to bring the Covid-19 virus to its knees," she described. "That way, we will see the premier’s plans for the economic recovery of our province come to life sooner rather than later. "In the meantime, keep us informed of the rollout of the Health Department’s plans to beat the virus, Premier. Radio silence is not good enough." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 