 East London - The Department of Water and Sanitation in Eastern Cape has intensified the delivery of water tanks and tankers in various communities to minimize the spread of the novel Covid-19 pandemic. "The delivery of water tanks and tankers is meant to assist community members to employ hygienic practices by washing hands regularly with soap as advised by South African Government and World Health Organisation," said Sputnik Ratau, spokesperson for the Department of Water and Sanitation. "As of Sunday, a total of 1089 water tanks have been dispatched to Sarah Baartman, 978 to O.R. Tambo District, 803 to Chris Hani District, 629 to Amathole District, 595 to Alfred Ndzo District, 271 to Buffalo City Metro, 222 to Joe Gqabi District and 108 to Nelson Mandela Bay Metro. "This brings to 4 695 water tanks that have been delivered in Eastern Cape so far and the work is ongoing." The delivery of these water tanks is in line with the Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Ms Lindiwe Sisulu’s directive for all provincial offices of the Department of Water and Sanitation and its entities to provide to urgently provide water to rural areas and informal settlements. This came after President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a National State of Disaster and announced stringent measures to fight the virus, including the washing of hands regularly. "This is done in an effort to curb the spread of the coronavirus particularly in densely populated areas, drought stricken areas and rural areas. Eastern Cape is one of the most rural provinces with mostly aged people," Ratau said. "Already 2 739 water tanks have been installed thus far to promote thorough washing of hands as required in the struggle against the virus. "The Department urge communities to work with government and protect all water infrastructure to benefit everyone. Further, we appeal to people to use water sparingly." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 