 King Williams Town - The Police Management in the Eastern Cape on Sunday distanced the SAPS from purported and fictitious plans to declare a State of Emergency in Queenstown as part of an attempt to prevent the spread of Coronavirus in the area. "The Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga described the fake news as mere distortions and falsehood which must not go unpunished," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana Cell. "These unfounded and baseless fake news came to light after a voice note was in circulation today (18 April 2020) in the social networks, calling for a shutdown and state of emergency in the Enoch Mgijima Municipal area. "According to the voice note, the decision follows reports of about nineteen (19) people from a nearby area allegedly tested positive on Covid-19." Brig Kinana said that the voice note which is attributed to a known local Councillor whose false articulations implicate the Police, will be investigated. "A case of Contravening Disaster Management Regulations by publishing statements to deceive people on measures taken by Government to address Covid-19 has been registered at Mlungisi for investigation," he added. "Members of the public and particularly those who hold public offices are warned not to make unsubstantiated and inflammatory statements which have a potential to create instability and uncertainty within the communities. "It must be noted that spreading fake and fabricated information to sow confusion and harmful anxiety to the people may lead to prosecution. This behavioural conduct cannot be tolerated during this critical time in our country. "No arrest has been made at this stage. Investigation continues." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 