 Mthatha - On Sunday, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape laid criminal charges against the Speaker of the Ingquza Hill Local Municipality, Cllr Ntandokazi Capa, and former Mayor and church minister, Cllr Pat Mdingi, after they allegedly contravened government regulations regarding the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. "This followed after a video emerged in which church ministers and local politicians, including Cllrs Capa and Mdingi, are seen entering the municipal auditorium in Flagstaff to attend a Good Friday church service," said Mlindi Nhanha, MP - DA OR Tambo Constituency Leader. "None of those in attendance were wearing protective gear such as masks and gloves and no social distancing was being practiced "Government regulations regarding the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic are categorically clear that only funerals of no more than 50 people are allowed. Social gatherings including church gatherings are forbidden." Nhanha said that "these reckless actions" undermine the national efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and flatten the curve of infection, and also place staff members in real danger of contracting the virus and exposing their families. "This will also further perpetuate the stereotype in this area that Coronavirus is non-existent or that only a certain race group is vulnerable to the disease," he added. "The DA calls on the Eastern Cape MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Xolile Nqatha, to take a swift and decisive action against councillors involved and institute an urgent investigation to establish who authorized this blatant disregard of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s orders." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 