 Port Elizabeth-based medical aid scheme, Medimed, on Thursday re-assured the public about its position on the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and how it aims to continue offering excellent support to members during this difficult and uncertain time. As the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases rise every day in South Africa, Medimed Medical Scheme outlined some of its immediate interventions to ensure continued access to care for its members and their holistic well-being, particularly with the onset of the flu season. “Medimed Medical Scheme has been providing healthcare security to members in the Eastern Cape for over 25 years and over this time has not only provided outstanding value for money for it’s members and their dependants, but also built up significant financial reserves,” says Director, Mike Neubert. He adds that Medimed remains committed to the well-being of its members by paying special attention to their needs. Thus, the medical aid scheme has made an unprecedented 50% reduction in premiums during this financially difficult time. “The Covid-19 lockdown has resulted in great financial hardship for businesses and their employees and of course for the Medimed members,” Neubert explains. “As a result the Board of trustees of Medimed decided to use the strong reserve position to reduce the scheme contributions for April by 50%.  Stay safe!” This overture is certainly excellent news to many Medimed Medical Scheme clients, who had been wondering whether they’ll get adequate medical attention should they be diagnosed with the virus or need medical help during this unprecedented crisis. Important contacts during or after this COVID-19 pandemic: Customer CareCall: 0861 777 660Email: info@medimed.co.zaWhatsApp:  060 715 5131 SpecialistsPre-Authorisations: 0860 434 003Email: specauth@medimed.co.za HospitalsPre-Authorisations: 0860 434 003Email: hospauth@medimed.co.za Chronic Medication QueriesTel: 041 395 4482Email: chronic@medimed.co.za Ambulance ServicesER24: 084 124 Disease ManagementTel: 086 010 3228Email: wellbeing@medimed.co.za Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.   