 Port Elizabeth - The Eastern Cape SAPS Management has strongly condemned the looting incidents reported in the Port Elizabeth Northern Areas. "A total of 9 arrests have been effected in separate incidents since Tuesday morning in connection with the lootings that took place in the Bethesldorp area. The suspects will all face charges relating to business robbery or housebreaking and theft. "Additional charge of violating the Regulations of the Disaster Management Act – not been confined to their residence will also be added," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "The suspects aged between 23 and 50 years old are expected to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates’ Court soon relating to their respective charges. "Due to the high visibility of law enforcement in the area, no further lootings took place last night or today, 15/04. Police will maintain high visibility in these areas to curb further incidents of lootings." Brigadier Kinana said that Public Order Policing (POP), Anti-Gang Unit (AGU), private security company, SAPS Bethelsdorp, SAPS Gelvandale and Metro Police were immediately on these scenes. "Many of the looting incidents took place simultaneously and the reaction of the police and other law enforcements was swift. Due to the volatility of the situation, POP fired tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets to disperse the crowd." The Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga condemned the looting incidents and said, “these acts are purely criminal and are condemned in the strongest possible terms. Community members are warned to refrain from engaging in criminal acts as we will not hesitate to arrest and detain anyone found in contravention of the law. Law Enforcement continue to patrol the area until the situation has returned to normal and will also continue to enforce the Disaster Management Act Regulations”. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 