 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape says it is greatly concerned of the media reports about the accommodation of the 14 Covid -19 patients in the Bed and Breakfast belonging to the daughter of Eastern Cape Transport MEC, Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe. "The allegations are of great concern as they blemish the efforts of the government to curb the spread of the coronavirus. It is important that proximity to leadership of both the movement and government does not mean or raise suspicions of unduly benefiting in government tenders," described SACP Eastern Cape spokesperson, Siyabonga Mdodi. "What is also concerning is that the MEC of Health in the Radio Interview confirmed that the process was not led by the Department of Health, and that the patients were symptomatic and should have been taken to the Healthcare Facility to receive medical care. "It is our considered view that there can be no justification of such actions if the allegations are proven to be true, and any defence of such conduct constitute a direct attack on the core values of the congress movement." Mdodi said that the SACP in the Eastern Cape has noted that the regulations governing public procurement, the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) has been relaxed as part of enabling effective response to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. "We are alive to the fact that the relaxation of the PFMA and MFMA opens an opportunity for looters to thrive. We are of the firm view that the government procurement processes of all required resources to cushion the people against this virus must be beyond reproach," he added. "As the numbers of the infected people will increase and subsequently the need to procure masks, hand sanitizers, groceries, etc as means of curving the spread of the virus and cushioning the people against its impact on their livelihood; there must be a clear process that will close space for any looting to occur, for it will undermine the good efforts by the government to cushion the people against the virus. "The government must do all its good efforts in a manner that solidify the confidence of the people in their leadership. We raise these concerns having experienced greedy people using the funeral of the late President Nelson Mandela and other disasters in the province for profiteering. "As the SACP, even though we welcome the decision to reverse the accommodation of patients in that Bed and Breakfast by the Eastern Cape Premier, which in our view should have not happened in the first place. We wish to call on the Premier of the Eastern Cape to investigate the matter to establish facts on the process followed, and act swiftly in an event of any wrongdoing." Mdodi said that this period requires all of us to be focused and unified on defeating the Covid-19, and therefore cannot afford to be defocused by unnecessary acts. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 