 East London - The Buffalo City Municipality says the team tasked with disinfecting public and high risk places is still on track with its work. The team started in East London last week and then moved on to Duncan Village, Mdantsane and Berlin. "This week the team has been hard at work in the Bhisho and Qonce areas covering the following areas: Nxarhuni taxi rank(next to train station), Grey Hospital and Grey Monument/clinic, KWT to Queenstown Taxi rank next to Home Affairs, KWT to Queenstown taxi rank next to DCS offices, Taxi rank behind Mabhovula, Open field next to Fire Department, Ginsberg taxi rank, Man's Butchery parking area, Zabalaza taxi rank, Thembisa taxi rank, Dimbaza shopping complex, Moses Twebe Hall," the municipality said. "The team will then conclude on Thursday and an evaluation will be made on the program. "The Municipality has received a number of requests from government departments and had to prioritize hospitals." AREAS DISINFECTED IN BCM THUS FAR • 03 April 2020• Caxton Str, Gillwell Mall, Ebuhlanti, & Boxer Taxi ranks. • 06 April 2020• CBD-Oxford Street from Fleet Street right up to Western Avenue (Vincent) and Lunkin Road. • Emthini, North End, West Bank 07 April 2020• Devereux Avenue, Frere, Amalinda, Amalinda • 08 April 2020• Beacon Bay and Gonubie 09 April 2020• Oxford Street, Buffalo Steet, Duncan Village Main Road, Moore Street, Fleet Street (Fitzpatrick rd to Home Affairs), All public toilets, All ATMs at CBD. • Berlin, Kuyasa, CMH, Highway, All public toilets and All ATMs around the areas.*Date* 14 April 2020• Berlin Taxi Rank, Ndevana Rank, Zwelitsha Zone 1 & 4 15 April 2020• Bhisho Taxi rank, Dimbaza Taxi rank, Market Square Taxi & Bus rank, Bolweni Taxi rank. Nxarhuni taxi rank(next to train station), Grey Hospital and Grey Monument/clinic, KWT to Queenstown Taxi rank next to home affairs, KWT to Queenstown taxi rank next to DCS offices, Taxi rank behind Mabhovula, Open field next to Fire Department, Ginsberg taxi rank, Man's Butchery parking area, Zabalaza taxi rank, Thembisa taxi rank, Dimbaza shopping complex, Moses Twebe Hall. 16 April 2020• Alexandra Road, Cathcart Street, Wellington Street, Queens Street, Ayliff Street, McLain Street, Cambridge Street, Smith Street, Market Street, Downing Street, Woodhouse (Fire Station) to Ginsberg Taxi rank, All ATMs and all Public toilets. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 