 Port Elizabeth - After turning the first sod for the new liquid bulk Tank Farm in the Port of Ngqura early last year, Transnet National Port Authority (TNPA) is on track with its part of the development. The civil work at Berth B100, which includes the paving of the berth, is expected to be completed in August 2020. The surfacing of the 15 000 m² area covers 50% of the Multi-Purpose Terminal, which is the area dedicated for the liquid bulk berth operations. “The completion of the paving will represent a step closer to our dream - unlocking the potential of the berth to ultimately increase cargo volumes and port revenue,” said Tandi Lebakeng, Port Manager of the Port of Ngqura. Oiltanking Grindrod Calulo (OTGC) has recently announced that its part of the development of the Liquid Bulk Terminal in the port has stalled, due to insufficient customer commitment. This announcement came after the completion of the earthworks of the storage area. OTGC was awarded the preferred bidder status in 2011 by TNPA to develop a liquid bulk storage facility to service fuel imports in the Nelson Mandela Bay region. The facility is intended to replace the existing one in the Port of PE. Despite the above delay, TNPA is committed to deliver infrastructure to facilitate and enable the development of a Liquid bulk Terminal in the port. To date, TNPA has completed all the design work and all major construction work is in progress and scheduled to be completed by September 2020. “TNPA is currently engaging OTGC, the PE oil companies, stakeholders and all the relevant authorities to formulate and implement a way forward. A comprehensive impact assessment is being undertaken by all the relevant parties and the way forward will be communicated in due course,” said Lebakeng. Having completed Phase 1 of the infrastructure required to service the site in 2014, TNPA commenced with Phase 2 at the end of 2018. Phase 2 includes the construction of the landside development, forming the link between the Tank Farm and the berth. This phase includes the environmental search and rescue to relocate plants and animals, a 3km access road to link the Tank Farm to Berth B100, a fuel line servitude, the Port Entrance Plaza, CCTV and access control, electrical substations and lighting, perimeter security fencing, data and telecommunications, a fire fighting system at Berth B100 and civil work at Berth B100. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 