 Port Elizabeth - Occupationally-acquired COVID-19 is a disease contracted by an employee as defined in the COID Act arising out of and in the course of his or her employment. The Government Notice on Compensation for Occupationally Acquired Novel Corona Virus Disease, which was signed by the Compensation Commissioner on the 20th March 2020, deals with occupationally-acquired COVID-19 resulting from single or multiple exposures to the confirmed case(s) of the virus in the workplace or after an official trip to high-risk countries or areas in a previously COVID-19-free individual. A claim for occupationally-acquired COVID-19 shall clearly be set out as contemplated in and provided for in sections 65 and 66 of the COID Act. Occupationally-acquired COVID-19 diagnosis relies on: Impairment Assessment of permanent impairment shall be determined three months after diagnosis and when Maximum Medical Improvement (MMI) has been reached. The degree of impairment will be evaluated based on the complications of the Covid-19 from the affected body system(s). Benefits Temporary total disablement (TTD) Payment for temporary total disablement shall be made for as long as such disablement continues, but not for a period exceeding 30 days. Suspected and Unconfirmed Cases For self-quarantine recommended by a registered Medical Practitioner in accordance with the DOH/WHO/ILO guidelines, the employer will be liable for remuneration for days of absence. Confirmed Cases For confirmed cases and where the Compensation Fund has accepted liability, temporary total disablement shall be paid from the date of diagnosis up to 30 days. In an event where there are complications, the Commissioner has a right to review the case. Permanent Disablement: In an event where there are complications, the Commissioner has a right to assess each case on merit and determine if there is any permanent disablement. Medical Aid In all accepted cases of COVID-19, medical aid shall be provided for a period of not more than 30 days from the date of diagnosis. If in the opinion of the Director-General further medical aid will reduce the extent of the disablement this shall be considered. Death Benefits Reasonable burial expenses, widow's and dependent's pensions shall be payable, where applicable, if an employee dies as a result of the complications of COVID-19. Reporting The following documentation should be submitted to the Compensation Commissioner or the employer individually liable or the mutual association concerned: Online claims for Covid-19 must be made through the following channels, indicating the correct ICD-10 code - U07.1: Submission of manual claims for COVID-19 must be sent to these email addresses: Claims Processing The Office of the Compensation Commissioner shall consider and adjudicate upon the liability of all claims. The Medical Officers in the Compensation Commissioners' Office are responsible for the medical assessment of the claim and for the confirmation of the acceptance or rejection of the claim. For more information on the above topic, please contact the LabourNet Helpdesk at 0861 LABNET (0861 522638). Not yet a LabourNet client, but would like to know more about our service and products? Email us:support@labournet.com or visit www.labournet.com today. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 