 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Environmental Health Practioners, led by Deputy Speaker of EC Legislature, Mlibo Qoboshiyane, the Deputy Chair of the Eastern Cape Province, Tony Duba and the MMC of Public Health (Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality),Yolisa Pali, were out in full force at the Ziyabuya Shopping Centre, KwaDwesi to conduct the sanitisation of public spaces. This is line with the Lockdown regulations pronounced by the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Ms. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The visit of the EC delegation marks the city’s 2nd week into the lockdown, which commenced on Thursday, 26 March 2020, at 23h59. They were very impressed with the progress made by the Municipality and pledged their unwavering support of all the efforts that have been made thus far in the fight against the world-wide COVID-19 pandemic. Deputy Speaker Qoboshiyane also interacted with members of the public and emphasised the importance of social distancing and good hygiene practices. "Now that the numbers of people in the streets have reduced, we felt that it would be proper to disinfect more and more public spaces. The EC Province launched testing and screening sites as one of the measures to contain the spread of the virus, and this will also be rolled out locally as of this week,” said Qoboshiyane. "I would like to urge the residents of the city to please wash their hands often with soap and water when they are at home, and keep a sanitiser handy when they leave their houses to buy essential items. The coronavirus is a serious disease: please be safe and stay at home, " added the MMC of Public Health (Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Yolisa Pali. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 