 East London - A Buffalo City Municipality team, consisting of Disaster Management, Municipal Health Services and SAPS, visited and inspected two shops on Thursday following complaints that were received. "Enforcement of Disaster Management Act 57 of 2002 and Regulation no 398 of 25 March 2020 , section 11 B (iv)(c) stating the store must put in place measures to ensure that customers keep a distance of at least 1 sqm from each other, and that all directions in respect of Hygienic conditions and exposure to persons to COVID- 19 are adhered to," the Metro said. It said that the team found that the NU 13 Spar: • Had posters which stated “the shop can only service 198 persons at a time”;• Was not overcrowded;• Hand sanitizing was done to all customers;• Ques outside were not adhering to social distancing;• Only one entrance and exit (which contravened Building Regulations);• Stickers to Manage Social Distancing inside the sho were in place;• PPE was issued to all staff;• On the 15/04/2020, all staff were screened by Dept of Health and a few were tested currently awaiting results from the lab; and• Temperature screening for all staff is conducted every morning by Management. The team recommended:• The store must not exceed 50 customers at any given time inside the store.• The que outside must clearly be marked and monitored by Spar Security for social Distancing• Access and Egress must be separated• Inyibiba Police Station will monitor for Compliance• Markings must be done on the butchery side to resolve the issue of Social Distancing whilst queuing to purchase meat and meat-products.• Action was taken immediately to remove the sticker that had the number of people to be serviced, so as to adhere to the recommended 50.• Constant monitoring to ensure customers keep the required distancing in the queues going towards the tills must be done by Spar employees. "BCM Municipal Health issued a Notice as per regulation 638 of food stuff, cosmetic and disinfectant Act 54 OF 1972." The Metro said that the team also visited a second shop, which will not be mentioned publicly, as a fully fledged team will pounce on it on Friday following some of the preliminary findings that were noticed on Thursday. "The Municipality is calling on all shops and businesses to comply with regulations." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 