 East London - The Buffalo City Metro has reduced the numbers of recipients of social relief vouchers to 200 per day and extended the shopping period in order to mitigate congestion. "The Municipality has made a Covid 19 social relief intervention of R30 million to reach 40 000 households of 800 poor families for each of its 50 wards. "Since the beginning of the vouchers system on Friday, the process has gone relatively smoothly in most wards but there have been reports received of congestions in Mdantsane, King Williams Town and Duncan Village," it said. "The Municipality’s security cluster is attending to these reports and has made a call to businesses to adhere to the strict social distancing regulations as guided by the Disaster Management Act 57 of 2002 and Regulation 398 of 25 March 2020. "A team consisting of the Municipality's Disaster Management, Municipal Health Services, Fire Services, Traffic and Law Enforcement, the South African National Defence Force and the South African Police is tasked with enforcing non adherence to the Disaster Management Act." The Municipality had to close down the Mdantsane City Mall on Friday following non-adherence to social distancing and hygiene practices. It also visited several other stores in and around the East London, King Williams Town and Mdantsane areas to monitor and enforce regulations. "The Municipality would like to inform residents not to panic around the ‘expiry’ of the vouchers as their usage has been extended up until further notice. "Supermarkets selected as per Municipal Financial Management Act, to process vouchers will now be able to only allow 200 recipients per day," the Metro said. "This means that spread out, shoppers should be able to be assisted within four days and as such, the Municipality is making a call to residents not to panic and flock to Supermarkets as they will all be eventually assisted. "We also note reports of complaints related to the compilation of the recipients’ lists. The Municipality – through its Council Speaker – has met with each of the 14 affected ward councillors and resolved such cases. "We will not tolerate any acts of fraud, list manipulation and corruption on the distribution of social relief vouchers. We call upon residents to report such cases for further investigation on our Fraud Hotline - 080 066 8413." The Municipality said that it is constantly reviewing the social relief voucher system and is making provisions to adhere to Covid 19 regulations. "We also urge members of the public to meet government and businesses halfway by cooperating, wearing masks and practicing social distancing." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 