 East London - The Executive Mayor of Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality has voiced his sincere appreciation to the business community and civil society in the City who are continuing to contribute in fighting hunger during this period. “It is important that we voice our appreciation to the business community in the Metro who have showed greatest level of support to communities across the Metro," said Executive Mayor Xola Pakati. "To ensure that these efforts are coordinated and better channelled, as a Municipality we will be launching a Food Bank where businesses can pledge their commitment and where the distribution will be managed." The Executive Mayor also called on the business community to follow in the footsteps of those who have made a substantial contribution during this period. “We want to particularly thank those such as Chippa United and its Chairman, Siviwe Mpengesi, for the donation of food parcels worth R300 000 during this period. We are really grateful for this as it is coming from a soccer club that has made Buffalo City its home. We call on all businesses in our metro to follow this lead and pledge their contributions to our Food Bank,” he said. “The Food Bank, together with the R30 Million funding allocation which will benefit 40 000 households will be decisive in fighting poverty in our City. These efforts that we are making help to expand the massive social relief announced by the President and their aim is to see people of the Metro free of hunger during this period. "We are of the view that this will make residents to even be better at respecting the lockdown regulations and ensure that they continue to stay at home. We will beat this Corona Virus together." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 