 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it has launched a Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) application relating to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s drought mitigation projects funded by the R200 million it received in Municipal Disaster Recovery Grant (MDRG) Funding. "The funding was received in the 2018/19 financial year and not a single cent has been spent to mitigate the water crisis, even though the average dam level of the City’s main supply dams stands at 22%," explains DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "The Municipality has indicated that the entire amount of R200 million has been committed to the Coegakop Wellfield project. The project is at a standstill as a result of appeals in respect of the Bid Adjudication Committee (BAC) award. "In our PAIA application, we are requesting all documentation regarding the tender award/s and contractual agreements between the Municipality and contractors relating to the Coegakop project funded by the MDRG." Bhanga adds that the documents must include but not be limited to tender specifications, contractual agreements, price specifications, and procurement plans. It must also include details about any objections and /or appeals in respect of the final award. "We are requesting the Acting City Manager, Noxolo Nqwazi, to release any and all information pertaining to this tender that would ordinarily be made public if requested," he says. "Should the information still not be forthcoming, I will be turning to the courts for the appropriate relief. "It has also recently come to light that the Metro only plans on spending R21 million of the R200 million received. "I have therefore instructed the DA’s Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Finance, Retief Odendaal, MPL, to write to the Eastern Cape MEC for Finance, Mlungisi Mvoko, as well as Provincial and National Treasury to request urgent intervention to prevent the forfeiture of the funding." Bhanga says the City is likely to forfeit this grant due to the fact that the Metro will have to make a second application for rollover of the funding. "It is unlikely that national treasury will approve this application," he adds. "During this water crisis, the Metro simply cannot afford to forfeit the funding and the DA will not sit idly by and watch this happen." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 