 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday welcomed the appointment of Mbulelo Sogoni as the Director-General of the Eastern Cape government as announced by Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane. "The SACP wishes Mr Mbulelo Sogoni and other newly appointed Heads of Departments well in executing their responsibilities," said SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, Siyabonga Mdodi. "Mr Sogoni brings vast experience in the provincial administration having served as the Director-General of the Province. Mr Sogoni’s appointment comes at a time when many of the Heads of Departments are new in various departments, his appointment helps in fusing continuity and change in the Provincial Administration." Mdodi said that his appointment comes at a critical moment, as the country and world as a whole battles with the novel coronavirus. "He will be leading an administration in a response to the pandemic, and efforts to cushion the Eastern Cape populace against its impact as the province is confronted with the challenges of massive unemployment, inequality and poverty. "As the SACP, we are of the view that Mr Sogoni should use his experience in leading the renewal and professionalisation of the Provincial Administration," he described. "For the Provincial Administration to be effective in discharging its responsibilities it ought to be renewed, taken out of political and administration factionalism and most importantly it ought to be rescued from the capture by the corruption networks. "We are calling upon the Mr Sogoni led administration to develop a clear plan of insourcing security and cleaning personnel in all the provincial departments. We believe that the outsourcing of these functions unnecessarily increase the cost of the services, as the tenderpreneurs charge government exorbitant prices and underpay workers without any benefits. "We are calling for an end to outsourcing of government services, and for deliberate building of the state capacity in order to adequately deliver services to the people. "We wish to call upon the provincial government to ensure the integration of women, youth and vulnerable groups in employment of the management of various departments. This should be anchored on the deliberate grooming of skilled women, youth and vulnerable groups in the provincial government. "As the SACP, we commit to work with the provincial administration in servicing the people of the Eastern Cape." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 