 Jeffreys Bay - With the level of the Kouga Dam having dropped to 15%, residents of Hankey and Patensie are reminded to use water extremely sparingly. "Water rationing to these towns have been suspended for the duration of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown, but that does not mean the drought is over," Kouga Executive Mayor Horatio Hendricks warned. He said water usage in the towns increased to more than 60% over the quota last week. "We have been installing extra water tanks at informal settlements and rural areas in the Gamtoos Valley area to increase the availability of water during lockdown. "These tanks are being filled up with water from Humansdorp so as not to put extra pressure on the Kouga Dam, which is the only supply dam feeding Hankey and Patensie." He said Humansdorp also had access to spring and ground water which was used to augment the supply to that town. "Municipal staff have, therefore, been drawing extra water from these springs to ensure enough water is treated at the purification plant for both Humansdorp and the tanks in the Gamtoos Valley area during lockdown." He said a total of 100 tanks were being installed at Hankey, Patensie and surrounds, including the neighbouring towns of Loerie and Thornhill this week. Extra tanks would also be installed at informal and rural areas in and around  Jeffreys Bay, Humansdorp and St Francis. He said that while washing one's hands regularly for at least 20 seconds was one of the best precautions against Covid-19, it was not necessary to keep the tap running for the full period. The World Health Organisation suggests applying a palmful of soap or handwashing liquid to a cupped hand, and rubbing hands palm to palm, while interlacing your fingers to cover every surface of your hands. This should be done for at least 20 seconds. Rinse and dry your hands properly. Hendricks also called on residents of other Kouga towns to continue using water sparingly. "The level of the Impofu Dam has dropped to about 16%. This is the biggest dam serving our other towns, which makes it critical that everyone uses water wisely." He reminded residents that water restrictions, including a prohibition on the use of hose pipes, remained in place. "If you are using more water to wash your hands and surfaces, try and save it elsewhere," he recommended. "A toilet is one of the biggest biggest water users in the house. By save your shower or bath water and using this to flush the toilet, you can save a lot of water." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 