 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality service delivery call centre’s (0800 20 50 50) capacity has been increased to accommodate the large volume of calls related to the COVID-19 pandemic and service delivery related issues. Since the start of the COVID-19 outbreak, the volume of calls has increased dramatically from 1 000 to three thousand calls on average per day. The Call Centre augmented its personnel to add Health Promoters from the Department of Health to deal with all COVID-19 related enquiries. More municipal staff that will focus on service delivery have also been added. The Call Centre is the main point of contact for residents to field their enquiries. This Centre is critical at this time of Lockdown, where residents are not allowed to leave their homes. The Call Centre will continue to operate 24/7 while the Health Promoters who will respond to the COVID-19 queries will work from 07h00 to 16h00. "It is in times like these when all government departments and entities have to show cooperation and unity in action. The increased capacity of our Call Centre will go a long way in improving service delivery and empowering our residents about the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Interim Executive Mayor Thsonono Buyeye. Teams of government essential services officials started a programme of distributing hand sanitizers, soaps, COVID-19 awareness information in informal settlements. A joint effort by Municipal Environmental Health Officers and Department of Health Promoters are also working on the ground in all townships, taxi ranks, shopping malls and informal settlements disseminating information through leaflets, workshops and loud hailing. "People staying in informal settlements and the townships are the most vulnerable to infection and quick spread of this pandemic, it is for this reason that we have taken a decision to focus on them. One infection has a potential of creating a catastrophe. I call upon our people to listen to these messages and adhere to the regulations in place,” said the Interim Executive Mayor. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 