 Port Elizabeth - "Adhering to the lockdown regulations without fail is the only way that we can arrest the spread of the corona virus, a pandemic that has already claimed thousands of lives across the world,” said Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane. Premier Mabuyane was in Nelson Mandela Bay to assess work done in the fight against COVID-19. Premier Mabuyane visited Nelson Mandela Bay on Thursday to assess the work that has been done by the Nelson Mandela Bay Covid 19 Disaster Management Forum, a public and private partnerships forum created to spearhead the fight against the COVID-19. Accompanied by MEC for Health Sindiswa Gomba, Nelson Mandela Bay Acting Executive Mayor Thsonono Buyeye and his entire Mayoral Committee, the Premier visited Nelson Mandela University, National Health Laboratory Services (NHLS), Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber and a public COVID-19 mobile testing station currently in the Walmer area. The Premier ended his visit with a briefing session at the Nelson Mandela Bay COVID-19 Disaster Management Centre, also known as the Joint Operations Centre (JOC). *Premier Mabuyane pleased with the work that has been done to fight COVID-19* "I am pleased to see the work that has been done in Nelson Mandela Bay. What pleases me more is to see that both government, private sector and the university are working together to fight this pandemic,” said Premier Mabuyane. At Nelson Mandela University, the delegation visited the innovative hand sanitizer manufacturing facility. The facility is an initiative of the university’s science department, adding value to the fight against the spread of the corona virus. The Premier’s delegation proceeded to check the state of readiness of the NHLS. The NHLS receives samples from people tested for the corona virus, process them and confirms the status of the person tested Following the recent announcement by the Minister of Health Dr Zweli Mkhize that the fight against COVID-19 must escalate to focus on screening, the Premier also launched a mobile screening programme in Walmer Town Hall. The mobile testing units will be working under the auspices of NHLS. "At this stage the screening is very important. It is good that systems are already in place. In a place as populated as Nelson Mandela Bay, it is important that government is ready to manage any situation,” said Premier Mabuyane. The Premier committed the support of the Provincial government to the joint efforts that are being done within Nelson Mandela Bay. "As the provincial government we will give you all the support. We understand the challenges you are dealing with. We have seen the circumstances you are working under, lack of support from other spheres of government is very important,” added Mabuyane. Nelson Mandela Bay Acting Executive Mayor said the visit by the Premier and MEC Gomba was encouraging. "We are faced with a pandemic, the support of other spheres of government becomes key. We are running against time to save lives, we must then pull all the resources into one basket, work in unity to save our people” said Acting Executive Mayor Buyeye. Buyeye thanked the Municipal, government and other represented stakeholders and partners who have been working tirelessly to make sure that the people of Nelson Mandela Bay are safe. "On behalf of the Municipality, I would like to thank all the officials and stakeholders who have risked the current challenging conditions, worked on the forefront to keep our residents safe from this invisible enemy. "The team operating at JOC have shown bravery and selflessness towards the fight against Covid19. I also call upon residents to adhere to regulations of the lockdown. Please stay at home. Make life easy for those who have been mandated to enforce the law.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 