 Port Elizabeth - At a time when water is of the utmost importance in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Nelson Mandela Bay and Kouga Municipalities are on the brink of Day Zero, the Democratic Alliance (DA) says. "The DA in the Eastern Cape has, therefore, come up with a plan that government can implement with immediate effect to avoid the Metro running dry," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "The City’s supply dams are at 22.16% of capacity. The Kouga dam is at 12.29%, followed by the Impofu dam (16.45%), Loerie dam (29.44%), Groendal dam (37.20%), and Churchill dam at 68.93%. No significant rainfall is predicted over the next six months. "The last 10% of water in any dam is unusable, which means that, technically, dam levels are at 12.16% The Metro is also using 300 megalitres of water per day while the daily consumption level should be 250 megalitres. "Regardless of the lack of rain, the current ANC-led coalition government has failed dismally in all respects to attend to the water crisis." Bhanga said that since August 2018, the NMB Municipality has been aware that a barge is needed to extract what is left of the potable water in the Impofu dam. "The barge will take five weeks to become operational but nothing has been done to make this happen. "The Coegakop Wellfield project is at a standstill and the Metro has not spent a cent of its R200-million Drought Mitigation Funding “committed” to this project," he added. "The metro administration has repeatedly insisted that a desalination plant is the solution to the water crisis. A desalination plant can take between 3 – 5 years to complete and can’t resolve the current problem. "The current administration has allowed the  Metro disaster declaration to lapse and it now stands to lose substantial drought funding in terms of the Disaster Management Act." NMB Action Plan: "The DA-led Kouga Municipality stand in sharp contrast with the failures of the ANC-led NMB and has been doing excellent work in spending a R151-million drought disaster grant. The municipality has already spent more than R108-million (71.79%) and still has R42.6-million available," Bhanga added. "The remaining funds have been committed to projects that were due for completion by mid-June 2020, but have now stalled due to Coronavirus lockdown regulations." Kouga successes: "Contractors have closed all drought project sites due to lockdown regulations. The municipality has started a process to fast track drought relief projects by recalling the contractors and facilitating the successful procurement of goods and services." Kouga Action Plan: "If we all work together we can avert this water crisis and successfully fight the Covid-19 pandemic," Bhanga said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 