 Mthatha - Eastern Cape Transport, Safety and Liaison MEC, Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe has expressed shock, sadness and deep disappointment at the taxi accident that claimed 15 lives on the N2 between Mt Frere and Mt Ayliff on Wednesday. The minibus taxi had 15 occupants, a gross contravention of the 70 per cent passenger regulation in line with Covid-19 National State of Disaster, her Dept said. "All 15 occupants of a minibus taxi, including the driver - died on the scene after the taxi they were traveling in collided head-on with a truck at about 16H30 on Wednesday, 15 April 2020. The minibus taxi was traveling south, from Mt Ayliff toward Mt Frere when the accident happened. The two occupants of the truck, the driver and a passenger were rushed to hospital with serious injuries." The accident comes as a major setback to a province that has just recorded an unprecedented low of 8 (eight) fatalities during the entire Easter season, a record low in decades. MEC Tikana-Gxothiwe has extended her words of condolences to the bereaved families. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families during this difficult time. We also wish to call on those who, for whatever reasons, are permitted to use our roads during this lockdown to continue being cautious and adhering to the rules of the road at all times,” said Tikana-Gxothiwe. The MEC also lamented the complete disregard for the COVID-19 regulations and the rule of law in general. “It is very disturbing that at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases is climbing on daily basis, there are still those who have no regard for the regulations in place. The 70-percent passenger limit had been widely communicated and is known by everyone. It is this complete disregard for the rule of law that has led us to where we are today, concluded Tikana-Gxothiwe. The exact cause of the accident is unclear at this stage, but MEC Tikana-Gxothiwe has called for a thorough investigation into this matter. The road remains partially closed to traffic as rescue and recovery personnel are still on the scene. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 