 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Nelson Mandela Bay on Tuesday said that it believes that the work of Council and its Committees’ cannot stop during a time of crisis. "In fact it is more vital than ever that the Metro adapt and use technology to allow councillors to continue oversight," said Leander Kruger - DA NMB Spokesperson for Public Health. "Since the announcement of the National Lockdown the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) Executive Committee has provided councillors with piecemeal information regarding the Metro’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. "I have written to the Interim Executive Mayor, Cllr Tshonono Buyeye, Speaker of Council, Cllr Buyelwa Mafaya, and Acting City Manager, Noxolo Nqwazi, to request greater formal communication from the Executive, particularly to the Public Health Committee." Kruger said that the National Assembly and Provincial Legislature portfolio committees of Health have both convened virtual meetings during this time. "I have requested that the NMBM Public Health Committee follow suit and schedule a meeting using digital platforms. "The purpose of the meeting would be for councillors to be briefed on the Eastern Cape Department of Health and the Municipal Public Health Directorate joint Covid-19 operations plan," she added. "The committee will then be able to assess the effectiveness of these operations, ascertain whether or not they are making a meaningful impact, and make findings and recommendations. "Given that the Metro appears to be the epicentre of the virus in the Eastern Cape, we need to be all hands on deck. During this time of great uncertainty, all parties need to work together to find the best solutions for our Metro – for this to happen we cannot be kept in the dark." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 