 Cradock - The Democratic Alliance (DA) welcomed a report by the Inxuba Yethemba Local Municipality (IYLM) Ethics Committee advising that the Eastern Cape MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Xolile Nqatha, remove the mayor, Cllr Ray Shweni, as a councillor. "The recommendation for the removal of Mayor Shweni followed after the DA successfully lodged a complaint with the Public Protector (PP), Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, to investigate the misappropriation of public funds to transport ANC members to party political events in 2017," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "This reportby the Ethics Eommittee, recommending the mayor’s removal, was handed to the Regional Working Committee (RWC) of the ANC before it was tabled in council on 22 January 2020 and is now in the public domain. "During an ethics committee meeting that was held on Friday, 15 November 2019, the chairperson indicated to the members of the committee that the report has been referred to the ANC-RWC hence the delay in the Speaker calling a special council meeting to table the report." He added that the DA has writtento the Speaker and the Mayor to ask for an investigation into this unacceptable behaviour. "The PP found that Mayor Ray Shweni, other ANC Councillors and officials in the IYLM in this regard misappropriated public funds to the tune of R125 000." Bhanga said that DA Cllr Monde Desha lodged the complaint with the PP on 23 February 2017 and the final report was released on 9 September 2019. He said that Adv Mkhwebane found the following actions to have resulted in non-compliance with the Municipality’s Supply Chain Management (SCM) Policy and the misappropriation of public funds: "The success of this DA intervention proves that we are working tirelessly for the people, fighting for clean governance and waging a war against corruption in all municipalities across the province. DA representatives, no matter how few they are, are of utmost importance to hold ANC-led governments to account." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 