 Port Elizabeth - The national water storage in the country continues to dwindle at a low of 59.2% compared to 64.1% during the same period last year, the Department of Water and Sanitation warned on Wednesday. "South Africa’s full water capacity is about 32 012.2 cubic metres, and currently, we are left with 18 950.7 cubic metres of water," said Sputnik Ratau, Spokesperson for the Department of Water and Sanitation. "The dam levels report released by the Department of Water and Sanitation this week, demonstrates that some parts of the country are yet to recover from the devastating drought experienced in 2014 and continue to bear the brunt." In an effort to curtail further distress in the affected areas such as Eastern Cape, Minister Lindiwe Sisulu of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation has instructed Acting DirectorGeneral, Mbulelo Tshangana, to source more funds to effectively deal with water challenges. "This came as a result of devastating effects experienced in the parts of drought stricken Eastern Cape, where the provincial water storage has plummeted to a low of 45.5%," Ratau said. "This is a sharp decline compared to 58.6% during the same period last year, a sign that the province is becoming water stressed. "Water supply systems in Eastern Cape – such as Algoa and Amathole – have experienced consistent decline all year round, affecting water supply to the dams within these systems." Ratau said that the Algoa Water Supply System is at 30.6% compared to 51.2% during the same period last year. "This system supplies water to dams in Nelson Mandela Bay and surrounding areas. Meanwhile, the Amathole Water Supply System with dams in the Buffalo City and surrounding areas has declined to 42.3% compared to 68.5% during the same period last year." Ratau said that some dams in areas such as Butterworth and Queenstown have run dry and ground water is being prioritised in those areas. "Water tankers are being implemented as an immediate relief. This is while the Department, working together with Provincial Government and Local Government, is working on long term solutions." In Free State the provincial water storage is at 65.6%, a decline from 73.4% during the same period last year. "The Bloemfontein Water Supply System – with dams supplying water to Mangaung Metro and surrounding areas – is at a low of 37.9%, a decline from 55.1% during the same period last year. The provincial water storage in Gauteng is satisfactory at 99.2%." Ratau said that the Integrated Vaal River System with major dams such Vaal is at 62.4%. However, Vaal Dam is struggling to recover optimally as it sits at 50.6%, a sharp decline compared to 74.6% during the same period last year. Water storages in other provinces are as follows: "Minister Sisulu has further called for more cooperation through all spheres of government, civil society organisation, private sector as well as communities to work closely together in a coherent manner," Ratau said. "In addition, she has emphasised that South Africa is a water scarce country and that we need to reduce the manner in which we consume water and save as much water as possible. "The Department of Water and Sanitation working with all its stakeholders, continues to intervene in water stressed areas and it has spent millions of rands in the affected areas to ensure communities do not run out of this important resource." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 