 East London - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Monday wished all Grade 12 pupils from the Eastern Cape, who wrote the National Senior Certificate (NSC) exams in 2019 all of the best when the results are released on the 7th and 8th of January 2020. "We applaud the hard work, determination and sacrifices made by the learners, educators and parents through trying circumstances which include insufficient and poor access to critical resources such as infrastructure, sanitation, internet and scholar transport," said Yusuf Cassim MPL - DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Education. "We want to extend our appreciation to the teachers and parents who worked tirelessly to ensure a positive result that will open the doors of opportunity to the youth of the Eastern Cape. "We are hoping for an increased pass rate and would also like to see an increase in the bachelor’s pass rate – which can lead to a tertiary degree or diploma." Cassim said that the DA will, however, be keeping a close eye on the high drop-out and low learner-retention rates in the province - especially in poor rural communities. "In 2018 the Eastern Cape pass rate broke through the 70% threshold, but this wasn’t a true reflection of the results," he described. "Of the 148 346 learners in grade 10 in 2016, only 65 733 (44.3%) wrote the NSC in 2018 of which 46 393 passed. "In order to curb this scourge schools must not only receive incentives for better matric results, incentives must also be provided for improved learner-retention rates as is done in the Western Cape." He further said that it seems that the Eastern Cape Department of Education would rather encourage a high drop-out rate in order to bolster the final pass rate. "In the DA-run Western Cape we continue to keep learners in school and maintain the lowest dropout rate in the country," Cassim added. "Through hard work and dedication all individuals must be able to have the opportunity to build a brighter future." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 