 Port Elizabeth - Continuous disruptive operations in the hotspot areas of Bethelsdorp and Gelvandale areas, in Port Elizabeth, resulted in the confiscation of two stolen firearms. "It is alleged that on Tuesday, at about 00:10, Port Elizabeth Anti-Gang Unit members and Metro police were engaging in stop and searches in Durban Road, Korsten, when a Metro police official arrested a 30-year-old male in possession of a stolen firearm," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "A Star 9mm pistol and 18 rounds of ammunition was found tucked in his pants. The firearm was reported stolen in Walmer in October 2019. "The suspect was detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition and is expected to appear in court soon." She said that also on Tuesday, at about 01:00, Public Order Policing members were patrolling in Esterhuizen Street in Arcadia when they noticed three males in front of a house. "Members stopped and on searching the surrounding area, a revolver was found in a toilet at the back of the house. The firearm was reported stolen from a gun dealership in Walmer in January 2019. No arrests were made and an enquiry has been opened." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, reiterated that the confiscation of these firearms is an indication that the police are serious in clamping down on the proliferation of illegal firearms. "We will continue in our efforts to remove illegal firearms from circulation as they are being used to commit serious and violent crimes," added Maj Gen Patekile. "I also encourage those in possession of illegal or unwanted firearms to hand them over voluntarily to their nearest police station during this Amnesty period which ends in March 2020, knowing that they will not be prosecuted." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 