 Port Elizabeth - The Mount Road SAPS Cluster Detective Trio Task team are searching for suspects allegedly involved in two separate incidents of house robbery, which occurred during the early hours Saturday. "In the first incident, which incident took place in Martin Street, Charlo, on Saturday, at about 01:10, the complainant's mother (aged 90) heard the dog barking in the house," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "She woke up and on looking outside, she noticed the garage door was opened. "As she opened the kitchen door to go out to close the garage door, she was accosted by an unknown male who pushed her into the house. He was armed with a sword. Another two males entered." Col Naidu said that the complainant (aged 64) came out of his room and was also threatened and shoved back into the room. "The men demanded money. One suspect attempted to bite off the rings from the 90-year-old woman, but was unsuccessful. The suspects took a small amount of money from the wallet, clothing, TV, 2 cellphones, a safe containing a .38 special revolver and the women’s grey Chevy Spark vehicle." Col Naidu said that the suspects tied up the complainant and his mother with electrical cords and left them in the room. The Chevy Spark was later recovered in Prospect Road. The woman sustained minor injuries to her fingers and arm. "In another incident, early on Saturday morning, at about 03:50, at a house in Sigcawu Street, in Walmer location, the complainant (33) went outside to use the toilet when his girlfriend heard a noise at the front door and someone shouting to open the door," Col Naidu said. "When she opened the door, three unknown males entered and asked for the complainant. "When she told them that he was not there, they took two cellphones and some money from the bedroom and left. "The suspects fired some shots outside." Col Naidu sad that while police were still on the scene, another member of the public (29) came forth and informed them that prior to the above robbery, the three suspects were at his house and fired shots through his bedroom window. "They also demanded that he open the door.  As he opened his door he recognised one of the suspect’s and they also demanded money from him," she said. "When he told them that he doesn’t have any, a fight ensued and they left his house without taking anything. He then noticed that the same suspects went to the complainant's house." Col Naidu said that the trio task team are investigating two separate cases of house robbery. "Police are warning communities not to open their doors to strangers especially when they call at odd hours of the night and where there are constant knocking/banging on their doors," she added. "If they notice something suspicious through their windows rather call the police or alert the neighbours or the security company instead of going outside. "Always take notice of a barking dog as they often alert their owners that something is amiss." Anyone who can assist police in tracing the suspects in both cases  is asked to contact D/W/O Stephen Bustin on  082 303 0572 or SAPS Walmer on 041 509 4006 or Crime stop 08600 10111 or their nearest police station alternatively the MySAPS app  which is also available for  download onto their smartphones. All information is strictly confidential. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 