 Port Elizabeth - Safer festive season operations in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro have certainly not abated and police are continuing with intensified police visibility in all hotspot areas across the metro. On Friday, at about 11:00, New Brighton police and Metro police acted on information received that illegal home liquor (mtshovalale) was being concocted at a house in Jawa Street. "Security around this house is very secure and access proved difficult on several occasions however on Friday, members spotted a man walking away from the house and he was stopped and questioned," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Police eventually gained access and discovered thousands of litres of home-brewed alcohol and liquor on the premises. "Ten thousand (10 000) litres of homebrew was destroyed and 237 bottles of various alcohol were seized." She said that the owner (68) was issued with a fine R2 000 for contravening Section 19 of the Liquor Act – trading without a valid liquor licence. Meanwhile, two firearms were also recovered in separate incidents on Saturday. "In the first incident, at about 10:30, SAPS Gelvandale members were conducting operations at the Korsten Taxi Rank, when they searched a known gang member," she said. "An Astra 6.35 pistol and ammunition was found in his possession." Police discovered that the firearm was reported stolen in Kuruman in June 2019. "The 22 year old suspect was arrested and detained," Col Naidu said. "He will appear in the Gelvandale Magistrate's Court on Monday." Also on Saturday, at about 14:15, an intelligence-driven operation resulted in the recovery of a stolen firearm, ammunition and a small quantity of drugs at a house in Humansdorp. "A search warrant was executed at a house in Searle Street in Moerasrivier. A 7.65 firearm and ammunition was found hidden in a bushy area of an adjoining yard," Col Naidu said. "Police also confiscated 35 rounds of ammunition, five packets of cocaine, 13 packets of tik, 3 mandrax tablets and 11 rolls of dagga. The drugs were found under the dog kennel in the yard. "The firearm was reported stolen in Kabega Park in January 2019." She added that the joint operation included the Anti-Gang Unit, Public Order Policing, PE K9 unit and SAPS Humansdorp. "No arrests were effected and an enquiry docket was opened for further investigation." Col Naidu further said that during searches at hotspot areas of Gelvandale and Bethelsdorp, two replica firearms were also confiscated. Mount Road Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, has reiterated that these operations will be continuing beyond the festive season. "We will continue in our efforts in cleaning up our streets and ridding them of illegal activities and unlicensed firearms that are used to terrorise and threaten the safety of our communities," added Maj Gen Patekile. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 