 Makhanda - Matric results for 2019. The Diocesan School for Girls Matric class of 2019 has attained a 100% Bachelor’s Degree (BD) pass with 37% of all subject symbols being distinctions and a whopping 75% of subject symbols achieved being either distinctions or Bs (above 70%). "In addition, three DSG girls have made the IEB Merit list for Commendable Achievement; this means that they are placed in the top 5% nationally across five subjects and have attained a Level 7 for Life Orientation. We warmly congratulate Emily Morgan, Nina Owen-Jones and Genevieve Powell on this significant honour," explained Shelley Frayne, Headmistress at The Diocesan School for Girls (DSG). "We are also delighted that DSG girls are mentioned on 11 occasions for being placed in the top 1% nationally in individual subjects." She congratulations to the following: "The results across the board are exceptional and the entire Matric class of 2019 is to be congratulated," said Frayne. "The following girls achieved a Full House of Seven Distinctions:Saffron Gifford, Emily Morgan, Nina Owen-Jones and Sarah Stevenson. Nina Owen-Jones also attained a distinction for her Cambridge A level Mathematics exam; effectively taking her distinction count to eight. "Lucy Schlebusch attained six distinctions and a further six girls attained five distinctions. They are Laura Fowlds, Josie Hickey, Hannah Loggie, Lisakhanya Maqula, Julia Murray and Kate Procter. Seven girls achieved four distinctions and a whopping 16 attained three distinctions. Special mention must be made of Sage Cawse who attained three distinctions and 79% for each of her four remaining subjects." A summation of The Diocesan School for Girls top achievers’ results is as follows: 7 Subject “A”s Saffron Gifford Accounting (97%); English Home Language; French Second Additional Language; Life Orientation; Life Sciences; Mathematics and Physical Sciences (92%)  Emily Morgan English Home Language; IsiXhosa First Additional Language; Life Orientation (92%); Life Sciences; Mathematics (94%); Music (95%) and Physical Sciences Nina Owen-Jones Afrikaans First Additional Language; English Home Language; History; Life Orientation (93%); Life Sciences (90%); Mathematics (95%) and Physical Sciences (90%) Genevieve Powell English Home Language (90%); French Second Additional Language; Life Orientation; Life Sciences; Mathematics (93%); Physical Sciences and Visual Arts (94%) Sarah Stevenson English Home Language; French Second Additional Language; History; Life Orientation; Life Sciences; Mathematics and Physical Sciences  6 Subject “A”s Lucy Schlebusch Accounting; Afrikaans First Additional Language; History; Life Orientation (90%); Life Sciences and Mathematics. (Lucy narrowly missed a full house of distinctions with 79% for English Home Language)  5 Subject “A”s Laura Fowlds English Home Language; Geography; History; IsiXhosa First Additional Language and Life Orientation  Josie Hickey Business Studies; Dramatic Arts (91%); English Home Language; Life Orientation and Life Sciences  Hannah Loggie English Home Language; Life Orientation; Life Sciences; Mathematics and Visual Arts (94%)  Lisakhanya Maqula Afrikaans First Additional Language; Dramatic Arts (95%); English Home Language; History and Life Orientation Julia Murray English Home Language; Life Orientation; Mandarin Second Additional Language; Mathematics and Visual Arts (93%) Kate Procter Afrikaans First Additional Language; Dramatic Arts (90%); English Home Language; History and Life Orientation 4 Subject “A”s Micaela Craven Afrikaans First Additional Language; Dramatic Arts (92%); Life Orientation and Mathematical Literacy Isabel de Beer English Home Language; History; Life Orientation and Life Sciences Diana Dixie Geography; IsiXhosa First Additional Language; Life Orientation and Mathematics Qhayiya Dywili Dramatic Arts; IsiXhosa First Additional Language (93%); Life Orientation and Mathematical Literacy Olivia Heath Accounting; Design; History and Life Orientation; Umtha Sibam Dramatic Arts; English Home Language; IsiXhosa First Additional Language and Life Orientation Anna Sprague Accounting; Business Studies; French Second Additional Language and Life Orientation  Frayne said that special mention must be made of the following departments for the extraordinary number of girls who achieved distinctions. Those with more than a third distinctions are as follows: "Congratulations are also due to the six departments whose 2019 class averages are distinctions: Dramatic Arts; IsiXhosa; Life Orientation; Mandarin, Subject Music and Visual Arts. Equally pleasing are the six bigger departments whose averages were above 75%: Business Studies, Design, English, French, History and Mathematical Literacy," she added. "I am sure you will wish to join me in extending a very warm congratulations to the Matric girls of 2019 and to the academic staff of DSG and at St Andrew’s College. We are proud of our academic record which I know can be largely attributed to the strong work ethic among our pupil body, good parental support and a well-trained, committed and dedicated academic staff. "I wish our 2019 Matric girls much success as they embark on the next chapter of their lives." Main image: Saffron Gifford Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 