 Port Elizabeth - Transnet National Port Authority’s (TNPA) Port of Ngqura in partnership with Transnet Group Capital (TGC) and contractor WBHO gave education in Nelson Mandela Bay a welcome boost when it embarked on a roadshow to three different schools in Motherwell on Tuesday, handing over much-needed equipment. Mfesane Secondary School, Masiphathisane Secondary School and Cingani High School did not only receive an abundance of maps, study guides and books on many different topics, but also a wide variety of laboratory and science equipment such as microscopes, chemicals and related equipment. A good start to the academic year “We saw it fit to assist these schools at the start of the academic year with essential material to unleash learners’ potential and improve the schools’ pass rate – especially in an environment where unemployment and crime is rife. These schools have a lack of basic resources, including libraries,” said Tandi Lebakeng, Port Manager of the Port of Ngqura. “As the landlord of South African ports, our Corporate Social Investment (CSI) initiatives are aligned with TNPA’s objectives – to enhance South Africa’s economy and global competitiveness through socially and environmentally sustainable port development and the development of its surrounding communities. This is driven through sustainable programmes, promoting education and ultimately economic growth,” Lebakeng said. A two-tiered approach Transnet’s Socio-Economic Development (SED) programme funds a two-tiered approach. The first tier includes the adoption of several previously disadvantaged schools across SA. The second tier focuses on community upliftment and improving quality of life. The Port of Ngqura’s contribution to these schools is in line with both these tiers. The port has not only adopted these schools and continue to support them, but it also contributes to the improvement of the community at large. TNPA offers valuable exposure and career guidance to learners of a variety of schools by inviting them to its annual Take a Girl Child to Work day and Tomorrow’s Man initiatives. “We are very grateful to TNPA and TGC for this valuable donation. This kind of exposure to maths, science and literature is needed to set our learners on a level where they can compete with any other school in the country. "We believe that with the right tools, education and opportunities of exposure, everyone can make a rightful contribution to society and to the growth of our economy,” said Mr Sandi, Principal of Cingani High School. The port has adopted these schools a number of years ago and is nurturing the relationship ever since. With this project, it established the specific needs of each of these schools and responded accordingly. Each school accommodates learners from Grade 8 to 12 learners. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 