 Port Elizabeth - Excellent teamwork by the Anti-Gang Unit, Anti-Gang Unit Tracing team and SAPS Kwazakele Task Team resulted in the speedy arrest of three suspects and the recovery of a firearm in Kwazakele, Port Elizabeth. "It is alleged that on Friday, at about 09:00, AGU members and AGU tracing team were following up information of suspects in a white Toyota Tazz in possession of firearms. They were assisted by SAPS Kwazakele Task Team. The information proved negative at the given address," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "As the teams were leaving the area, they spotted 2 males that were in the process of robbing a bread truck in the area. When they saw the police vehicles they started running. Members noticed a firearm in the hand of one of the suspect’s. "The suspect tossed the firearm in a yard before they jumped into a white Toyota Tazz that was parked close by. "The teams succeeded in blocking them in in Ngcanga Street where they attempted to alight but the swift reaction by the members prevented them from getting out of the vehicle." She said that three suspects were arrested and the car was reported stolen in Motherwell in April 2016. "The firearm, a .38 special revolver (serial no filed off) was found in a yard in Ngxokolo Street," Col Naidu added. "The suspect aged, 27 is detained on a charge of conspiracy to commit robbery and possession of prohibited firearm and ammunition and the 32-year-old suspect is detained for conspiracy to commit robbery while the third suspect, aged 28 is detained on charges of possession of suspected stolen property and conspiracy to commit robbery. "They are expected to appear in court soon." In another incident, on Friday,  at about 23:55, AGU members were patrolling in Nkuthazeni Street in Kwanoxolo when they noticed a person walking in the street. "As they stopped next to him, the 50-year-old voluntarily put his hands up and fell to the ground. After searching him, a .38 Taurus revolver was found in his possession. The firearm was reported stolen in Walmer in January 2019." He was detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. He will appear in the Port Elizabeth court on Monday. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 