 Port Elizabeth - Port Elizabeth Flying Squad and K9 Unit arrested five suspects and recovered two firearms and a replica firearm soon after following up on information about men in a shack with firearms in Izinyoka in Kwadwesi. "It is alleged that on Monday, at about 08:45, members acted on the information and surrounded the shack in Kobese Street in Izinyoka. "On entering the shack, five males were found inside," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Police dog ‘Max’ immediately reacted to a panel in the partition in the lounge. "Two firearms, a 9mm Norinco pistol and a shotgun were retrieved. "A replica toy gun was found in the jacket belonging to one of the suspect’s." She said that the suspects aged, 20-34 were detained on charges of illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. "Additional charges of murder, hijacking and business robbery will be added to the 20 and 24 year old suspects. They are expected to appear in court on Wednesday." Col Naidu said that it is alleged that on Friday, 27 December, at about 20:08, the complainant, 21 years old, was in a shop in Greenbushes Road in Greenbushes in Kabega Park area and was at the counter when suspects entered the shop. "The males were armed and demanded money and goods from the complainant. The panic alarm was activated and immediately the security company responded," Col Naidu added. "As the security guard entered, he grappled with the suspect that was closest to the door. "Roderick Erasmus (49) shot at the suspects, injuring one of them. Suspects retaliated and fatally wounded Erasmus." A customer (50) who was in the shop was robbed of his cellphone, wallet and his vehicle, a Nissan NP200 bakkie. "The suspects also took cash, cigarettes as well as the complainant’s cellphone and the security official’s firearm. The suspects’ vehicle, a Red Ford XR3 and the bakkie were recovered about 3km from the shop. Some of the money and the wallet belonging to the customer was also recovered not far from the vehicles. The Ford XR 3 was reported stolen in Kwadwesi in December 2019." Col Naidu said that on 1 January 2020, at about 23:00 SAPS Kwazakele Vispol Task Team members received information of the possible whereabouts of the suspects. "With the assistance of Mount Road Cluster Detective Trio Task Team, the Anti-Gang Unit and PE Flying Squad, two suspects were arrested between 00:01 and 02:00 on Monday morning. "A 33-year-old suspect was arrested at a house in Kwazakele. The suspect was found with a gunshot wound to his lower abdomen," she added. "Further information led police to a house in Joe Slovo in Kwadwesi where a 38-year-old suspect was arrested. "A 9mm Vector firearm (serial number filed off) was confiscated. "A Mazda bakkie suspected to have been used in the commission of the crimes was also seized." Two suspects are appearing in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates’ Court on Monday on charges of murder, hijacking and business robbery. "An additional charge of illegal possession of firearm and ammunition will be included in the charges for the 38-year-old suspect." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, has hailed the breakthrough, an astounding success. "Excellent teamwork and the swift collaboration of information by the operational units resulted in the speedy arrest of the suspects. Criminals are warned that it is only a matter of time before their time is up. The confiscation of illegal firearms is a step closer to ensuring a safer community. We urge the communities not to harbour these criminals but to report them," added Maj Gen Patekile. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 