 Port Alfred - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape says it is extremely concerned at the lack of urgency around the water crisis in the Ndlambe Local Municipality. "The situation requires a constant stream of water tankers to ensure residents of Port Alfred receive at least some water," said Kevin Mileham MP - Frontier Constituency Leader. "The Municipality, who must provide residents with water, is not providing extensive information, concrete plans or timelines to the residents of Port Alfred, Alexandria, Bushmans River and Kenton on Sea. "A public meeting regarding the water crisis, which will be attended by the Municipality, will take place on Tuesday, 14 January at 17:30 in the Civic Centre in Port Alfred." Mileham said that among the questions not answered by the municipality are: He further said that the DA can provide some answers: "1. The reverse osmosis plant is owned and being constructed by the Amathole Water Board and is not under the control of the municipality. The plant is currently designed to clean the water coming from the Sarel Hayward dam, and cannot desalinate salt water," Mileham described. "2. The Ndlambe Mayor, Municipal Manager and Director: Infrastructure and other drought-stricken Eastern Cape municipalities met with the Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation, Lindiwe Sisulu, on Monday. The Minister committed R300 million to assist drought-stricken Eastern Cape municipalities. Ndlambe has submitted a business case and it is likely to receive an equitable proportion of this amount. "Among the proposals for Ndlambe are a new desalination plant (providing 2ML per day) at the end of Wharf Street on the Kowie River in Port Alfred, new boreholes between Port Alfred and Bathurst, and a borehole on the West Bank of Port Alfred." Mileham added that Water tanker deliveries commence at 10:45 daily, at Flame Lily Terraces in Port Alfred, and will follow a set route: Flame Lily Terraces, NG Kerk on Broadway, Kelly’s Beach, in front of the Highlander, Corner of Wood and High Streets, Horton Road in front of Sunset Park and Emerald Heights. Residents are requested to bring their own containers. Detailed times for each stop are not available. "4. Gift of the Givers will attend next week’s Joint Operations Committee (JOC) meeting. The DA remains committed to ensuring that information regarding the Ndlambe water crisis is communicated effectively and the matter is dealt with urgently. We urge residents to use water sparingly and to re-use water where they can." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 