 East London - The Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday said that it welcomes the efforts of all stakeholders in achieving the improvement in the Matric pass against all odds. "The results are mostly as a result of teachers and learners going extra miles through morning, afternoon and evening classes, converting ordinary classrooms into hostels, amongst others," said PAC Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, Ndiyakholwa Ngqulu. "We further welcome the improved performance in Mathematics, Accounting and Physical Science amongst the relatively difficult subjects that have proven to be the undoing in the past. "We further welcome the improved performance in many of the rural schools in our province, the Eastern Cape." Ngqulu added that the exemplary schools such as the Nyanga High School in Engcobo, deserves all the praise as the torchbearers for rural-based schools who face a unique set of educational challenges. "There is still room for more improvement in individual subjects, and the aggregate as well. More investment in foundation phase and intermediate phase will bear better results in the coming years. "More investment in teacher training in keeping with the new developments in trade and industry and technology, will take the province and the country to greater heights," he added. "These interventions must be validated by sustainable infrastructure development more especially in rural and marginalized areas where majority of our under-resourced schools are located. "However, the PAC remains cornered and perturbed with some of the long-established problems which the government continues to fail to address even to date. Of concern is the quality of the results vis-avis the skills supply and demand in the country. "Of concern is the crisis of the capacity of the higher education sector to absorb the successful matriculants." Ngqulu said that of even greater concern is an unclear plan for those, who have not succeeded. "The perpetual failure of the government to effectively address these concerns will forever shorten the celebration of the African Child. "Last but not least, we call upon the MEC of the Eastern Cape Department of Education, Fuzile Gade, to prioritize the need to address the quality of the matric results and infrastructure backlog in general including eradication of mud schools, pit toilet system and roads amongst other within the next six months period." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 