 Port Alfred - On the 31st of December, Lt Col Dirk De Kock, who served at full steam until his last day, retired after serving the South African Police Service for 40 years and over 200 days. His service was described as being characteristed by dignity, pride, integrity and utmost dedication. Lt Col De Kock was recently awarded 1st position at the Eastern Cape Provincial Excellence Awards in the category Admin employee of the Year level 8-12. According to police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender, Lt Col Dirk Cornelius De Kock joined the South African Police Service in on the 23 February 1979 in Cradock. "On completion of his basic training in Pretoria he served at various stations and units within the SAPS including, POP unit, Balfour, Cradock, Keevypos, Mortimer, HF Vervoed Airport, Kabega Park, Eastern Cape – Regional Logistics, Prov. Commissione, Eastern Cape, Area Commissioner Drakensburg and Aliwal North Cluster," she said. "On the 13th February 2017, he joined the Port Alfred Cluster and took up his post at the accounting station as the Head of Support." Capt Govender said that during his career, he was awarded several medals including: During a farewell function hosted by the Cluster, Brigadier Morgan Govender the Cluster Commander acknowledged the work of this decorated Officer who made infinite sacrifices. He also thanked Mrs De Kock and said, “We understand that it is not easy to be the wife of a police officer. It demands a lot of giving and understanding from family and friends and we acknowledge and sincerely appreciate the support he received from you and the family, allowing him to shape his career and to serve the people of South Africa." Brigadier Govender added, “We salute you for your achievements and for the vigor and dedication with which you embraced all your opportunities and assignments in the SAPS - and for raising a beautiful family whilst working and chiseling out a career in a very challenging environment. "Thank you for the professional way in which you led many teams in the SAPS and you did not hesitate to execute your mandate by facing your responsibilities head-on. You have been an officer and a gentleman of irreproachable character, a true ambassador for the SAPS and wonderful human being.” During his career Lt Col De Kock was deployed in most of the policing environments - on the operational side as a Station Commander of various police stations and in the support environment, and this shaped him as one of the most experienced managers in the Port Alfred Cluster and his knowledge and expertise will certainly be missed. "In acknowledgement, Lt Colonel De Kock thanked his wife Lizette for her support as well as the SAPS for affording him the opportunity for serving the community. He also shared a few of his experiences during his career," Capt Govender said. "Members whom he worked with shared their individual experiences of his discipline, commitment, dedication, integrity and honest care for the well-being of others and this attribute made him a very special commander and manager." At a farewell parade, Lt Col De Kock showcased his talent as a trumpeter during the hoisting of the National Flag was being and the National Anthem before closure. “You may rightfully look back with pride on a successful career, and the knowledge that you served the people of this country with distinction, and please be assured that you will always remain a part of the police family and we wish you a well-deserved retirement,” said Brigadier Govender. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 