 Port Elizabeth - Following outrage from some quarters after the posting of a photo on social media showing representatives of the Democratic Alliance (DA) and the United Democratic Movement (UDM) discussing a possible coalition in Nelson Mandela Bay, the DA has sought to set the record straight. The outrage stems from the DA engaging the UDM after it successfully helped to oust former Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, of the UDM accusing him of mismanaging the Bay.  This is outrageous!! Holomisa allowed Bobani to get away with breaking every provision in the previous coalition agreement, he has insulted everyone in the DA and it’s leadership and now he and Helen Zille are in discussions about a coalition after a recent trip to Germany. https://t.co/kMNgeIIRFe  Bantu Holomisa cannot be trusted in any coalition and the DA would do well to consider his outrageous insults & betrayal of the party and its leadership before even thinking about dealing with the UDM. This smacks of another hair brained, “Mamphele Ramphele” type scheme by Zille Bobani was Mayor after the UDM managed to get the ANC's votes to oust the then DA-led coalition of Athol Trollip from office. Bobani basically led an ANC-dominated administration since the UDM does not have enough seats to go it alone. Since his ouster, which was supported by the ANC, the ANC are now running things until a new Mayor is elected. The DA, which previously took over the Bay after defeating the ANC in the 2016 Local government, without a doubt wants to take reins in the Bay again. But it needs numbers on its side, hence engagements with the UDM and other smaller parties. "The Democratic Alliance will only ever make decisions based on what is in the best interests of the people of Nelson Mandela Bay," explained DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "In the past, during our tenure in government as part of a coalition government, the DA has proven our commitment to serving the people. After taking over in 2016, we were able to turn a broken Nelson Mandela Bay around and save it from collapse." He said that some of the successes achieved during the two years that the DA was part of the governing coalition government include: "This would not have been possible had the DA not formed a coalition government and worked with the other parties who, at their core, wanted to put the people of Nelson Mandela Bay first and ensure that they received the services to which they are entitled," Bhanga said. "But all of these achievements came to nought after the government, in August 2018, was taken over by a corrupt cabal intent on serving their own best interests, even if it meant running Nelson Mandela Bay into the ground." Bhanga added that some of the failures include: "As a result, all the hard work in ensuring good, clean governance and effective service delivery by the DA and its coalition partners, has been undone and Nelson Mandela Bay is now worse off than it was in 2016. "The upcoming council meeting could be a critical turning point for the City and, as such, we have again entered into talks with all political parties, who would like to see the City returned to a path of prosperity, based on the values of doing what is best for the people of Nelson Mandela Bay," he described. "The DA has made it abundantly clear that we will never work with corrupt individuals who put themselves ahead of the people of Nelson Mandela Bay, and that has not changed. We are not prepared to govern at all costs. "At the heart of all our negotiations is the will to serve the people of Nelson Mandela Bay, to bring an end to the political instability that is crippling service delivery and get the City back on track." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 