 Port Elizabeth - Excellent teamwork and swift reaction of the various SAPS teams resulted in the arrest of two suspects allegedly involved in a murder, hijacking and business robbery which took place on the 27th of December 2019 in Greenbushes, Port Elizabeth. "It is alleged that on Friday, at about 20:08, the complainant, 21 years old, was in the shop in Greenbushes Road in Greenbushes in Kabega Park area and was at the counter when three males entered the shop," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The males were armed and demanded money and goods from the complainant. The panic alarm was activated and immediately the security company responded. "As the security guard entered, he grappled with the suspect that was closest to the door. Roderick Erasmus (49) shot at the suspects, injuring one of them. Suspects retaliated and fatally wounded Erasmus." She said that a customer (50), who was in the shop, was robbed of his cellphone, wallet and his vehicle, a Nissan NP200 bakkie. "The suspects also took cash, cigarettes as well as the complainant’s cellphone and the security official’s firearm. The suspects’ vehicle, a Red Ford XR3 and the bakkie were recovered about 3km from the shop," Col Naidu. "Some of the money and the wallet belonging to the customer was also recovered not far from the vehicles. The Ford XR 3 was reported stolen in Kwadwesi in December 2019." Col Naidu said that on New Year's Day, at about 23:00, SAPS Kwazakele Vispol Task Team members received information of the possible whereabouts of the suspects. "With the assistance of Mount Road Cluster Detective Trio Task Team, the Anti-Gang Unit and PE Flying Squad, two suspects were arrested between 00:01 and 02:00 on Wednesday morning. "A 33-year-old suspect was arrested at a house in Kwazakele. The suspect was found with a gunshot wound to his lower abdomen," she added. "Further information led police to a house in Joe Slovo in Kwadwesi where a 38 year old suspect was arrested. A 9mm Vector firearm (serial number filed off) was confiscated. "A Mazda bakkie suspected to be used in the commission of the crimes was also seized." According to information received by police, the third suspect may have also been shot and injured in his abdomen. "Police expect to made further arrests soon. "The arrested suspects will appear in the Port Elizabeth magistrates’ court on Monday, 6/01 on charges of murder, hijacking and business robbery," Col Naidu said. "An additional charge of illegal possession of firearm and ammunition will be included in the charges for the 38-year-old suspect." Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Dawie Rabie, has hailed the breakthrough a success. "Working together as a team towards our common vision will always reap positive results. The immediate collaboration by the recipients of the information (Kwazakele Vispol Task Team) left no space for the criminals to evade arrests. We will not rest until all the suspects are behind bars," added Maj Gen Rabie. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 