 Port Elizabeth - The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape on monday said that it had been saddened, shocked, shattered and deeply mourns the untimely passing of one of the movement's senior cadres - Bicks Ndoni. At the time of his assing, Ndoni was the Chief Whip of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. He reportedly collapsed and passed on on Monday at the ANC Regional Office in Nelson Mandela Bay. "Cde Bicks Ndoni was involved in the liberation struggle from an early age, having served in the Uitenhage Youth Congress, trade union movement, NUMSA and remained committed throughout his life to the liberation of the South African people from all forms of oppression," said Gift Ngqondi, ANC Eastern Cape Head of Communications. "Not only has Comrade Bicks Ndoni distinguished himself as a disciplined cadre of the ANC, he served the ruling party with distinction in various capacities where he was deployed. He put the interests of the ANC and the people of South Africa above anything else, having served as the Mayor of the Uitenhage Transitional Council (TLC) before the merger of Uitenhage, Despatch and PEM to Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. "Cde Bicks served as the Deputy Mayor of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality during the era of Cde Nceba Faku and Cde Nondumiso Maphazi, MAYCO member responsible for Safety & Security, Deputy Mayor from 2015 - 2016 under Cde Danny Jordan and now served as Chief Whip of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality." Ngqondi said that he will be sorely missed in the movement and in Local Government for the special input and contribution he made in - among others - policy formulation on local government transformation, intergovernmental relations, international relations and in other areas. "As we pay our respects, celebrate his life and honour his memory, we can proclaim with all certainty, that Cde Bicks Ndoni was an outstanding cadre who embraced all challenges and tackled them head on," he added. "His life was at all times an expression of his unwavering allegiance to the struggle for freedom. He lived his life with utmost distinction in the service of his people. He displayed uncompromising loyalty to the movement until his very last breath. "We have lost a dedicated cadre - someone who was always ready to roll up his sleeves and work in the interest of the people of Nelson Mandela Bay . We send our heartfelt condolences to his family, relatives, comrades and friends. "May the soul of this great giant, uTipa, u Bhayeni rest in revolutionary peace." Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Bay said it had also been saddened by Ndoni's sudden passing. "The Democratic Alliance is saddened by the passing of the Chief Whip of the Nelson Mandela Bay Council, Cllr Bicks Ndoni," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "Cllr Ndoni played a key role in the politics of the City and was a former deputy mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay. Before the Metro was amalgamated he also served as mayor of Uitenhage. "He gave decades of his life in service of this Metro and we thank him for his contributions. "On behalf of the Democratic Alliance, I would like to extend our sincere condolences to his family, friends and colleagues, during this time of loss." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 