 East London - South Africa’s only river port, the Port of East London, is increasing its popularity as a cruise port with 14 cruise liner calls this season – the most calls it has ever received in a single season. The growth this season is mainly driven by the addition of the AIDAmira, which is on her first itinerary with AIDA Cruises as the German line’s fourth Selection Class vessel and its 14th ship overall. The line also has its AIDAura vessel sailing on the local route this season. AIDAmira first called at the Port of East London on 28 December 2019 on her debut cruise out of the Port of Cape Town and will visit the river port seven times in total this season. Her itineraries from Cape Town are taking her to Walvis Bay, Luderitz, Port Elizabeth, Durban, East London and closing the season at the Port of East London on 1 April 2020. Monday, 27 January 2020 will see two cruise liners docking in East London on the same day, the Azamaria Quest operated by Azamara Cruises, and the Nautica operated by Oceania Cruises. On Monday, 20 January 2020, the port was also expecting to achieve a milestone with the arrival of the longest cruise ship it has received to date, the 230 m MV Artania, chartered by Phoenix Reisen. This would have meant East London enjoyed 15 cruise liner calls this season. However, gale force winds in Cape Town caused the vessel’s itinerary to be modified and it proceeded directly from Cape Town to Durban without an East London stopover. East London Port Manager Sharon Sijako said the increase in vessel calls in East London is attributed to the proximity of top quality tourist attractions to the port, including two private game parks (Mpongo and Inkwenkwezi), two golf clubs, the Khaya La Bantu Xhosa cultural village at Cintsa, unspoilt beaches, city and natural history tours, as well as exciting experiences such as kayaking, elephant rides or helicopter flips to the Wild Coast. “We are aware that Inkwenkwezi Private Game Reserve is now offering a number of extra services to the tourists, such as helicopter flips to the Wild Coast, elephant rides and additional African cultural experiences that boost the attractiveness of this region as a tourism destination. It has been our great pleasure to welcome AIDAmira to East London waters as the latest in a growing list of cruise vessels that continue to endorse our city’s tourism potential,” she said. AIDA prides itself on offering authentic tourist experiences bringing local heroes on board to share their culture, music, art and cuisine through workshops and cookery demonstrations. The adventures on offer in East London when the vessel is in port add further excitement to the passenger experience. AIDAmira is made for journeys under the African sky with generous outdoor areas and sundecks with pools and barbecues. There are around 700 guest cabins and suites, many with balconies and great views. Schedules indicate that at least 23 luxury cruise ships, operated by 17 international cruise lines, will call across South Africa’s six cruise ports this season. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 