 Update: eNATIS system back online. Municipal traffic offices say they are operational again. All systems are up and running. Port Elizabeth - Several municipalities advised residents on Tuesday morning that Motor Vehicle Registration, the Vehicle Testing Station, as well as the Driver’s license offices, are offline due to the eNatis system not working properly. "It is a national problem and is receiving attention. We thank the public for their patience and understanding," the George Municipality advised residents. The Stellenbosch Municipality Tweeted; "TheeNATIS system at Traffic Departments across the country is currently offline. Residents may contact our Traffic Department over the course of the day on (021) 808 8822/32, to find out if the system is back online. We will also share updates as we receive them." "The eNATIS network (National Traffic Information System) is currently offline in the Gansbaai area (25 Feb 2020 at 08:00). Overstrand Traffic in Gansbaai is therefore not able to register vehicles or issue driving licences until Telkom lines are restored," said the Overstrand Municipality. The City of uMhlathuze also advised residents; "The eNatis system is currently down at Licensing section both in Richards Bay&Empangeni,a call has been logged to the department, awaiting a favourable response. You will be notified once the system is online. Inconvenience regretted." Several other municipalities indicated problems with the system as well. However, people who had visited their traffic departments on Tuesday morning expressed disappointment as they would have to make new appointments because of the system glitch. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  