 East London -  The Eastern Cape provincial water storage is in a precarious state as it continues to linger just below the 50% mark, the Department of Water and Sanitation said. In a report on Thursday, it said that the province continues to suffer from the drought effects as the current stored water is at a low of 49.3%. "During the same period last year, the water storage was at 56.6%," spokesperson, Sputnik Ratau. "The Algoa Water Supply System with five dams supplying water to Nelson Mandela Bay and surrounding areas has dwindled to 28.9% this week from 29.6% last week. "This is a far cry compared to the same period last year when the system was at 48.3%." He said that the Kouga Dam dropped to 21.6% this week, compared to 22.9% last week. "Loerie Dam also declined to 41.6% this week compared to 48.5% last week. Impofu Dam is at 16.7% this week from 16.5% last week." Meanwhile, the Amathole Water Supply System with five dams supplying water to Buffalo City and surrounding areas is also struggling at 41.3% this week. "This is a considerable decline compared to 65.5% during the corresponding period last year. Bridle Drift dam is at 39.7%, Rooikrantz Dam improved from 36.1% last week to 37.5% this week, and Nahoon Dam just is at 41.8% this week." Ratau added that the Klipplaat Water Supply System improved from 22.4% last week to 25.0% this week. "The Department of Water and Sanitation calls on water users to use water sparingly and encourages community members to report water leaks in their communities. Leakages in households should be fixed as a matter of urgency to reduce losing water any further during this drought period." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 