 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday said that it notes and welcomes the decision by the South African Local Government Bargaining Council (SALGBC) on the matter between Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality (BCMM) and Andile Fani, former BCMM City Manager. "The SALGBC ruled that the dismissal of Fani as the BCMM City Manager was procedurally and substantively unfair," said Siyabonga Mdodi, SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "The decision by the SALGBC council brings to an end a long period of humiliation to Mr Fani and his family. The actions by the BCMM council against Mr Fani compromised his reputation as he was viewed as a corrupt civil servant due to the lies that were peddled about his name. "The latter has led to him losing many employment opportunities. The decision by the SALGBC should be used by many to avoid ill-treating committed civil servant for their principled refusal to bend the rules to suit the interests of the greedy sections within and outside municipalities." Mdodi said that the SACP is on record having condemned the unfair treatment of Mr Fani by the BCMM council, which we strongly believe that it is because of his firm stance against corruption. "This uncalled-for conduct of the BCMM council, to unjustifiable waste public money on non-existent case should not be tolerated by both the movement and the people of BCMM," he described. "The taxpayer’s money should not be used to satisfy egos. The BCMM has spent more than R4 000 000. 00 (Four Million Rands) pursuing non-existent case to satisfy the interests of certain people. "We are calling upon the BCMM council to do the right thing and not spend another taxpayer’s money contesting the decision, for they know they have no prospects of winning. "We further call on the ANC alliance to ensure that there is consequence management for those who have deliberately wasted huge amounts of money just to open way for corruption to prevail in the BCMM." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 