 Port Elizabeth - For the fourth year in a row, Continental has been named by Fortune Magazine as one of the 'World's Most Admired Companies', making it one of only two tyre companies to make the prestigious list in 2020. Continental was recognised for excellence in key areas such as the quality of its products and management, social responsibility, people management and innovation. The Hanover-based company was ranked fourth in the motor vehicle parts category, and 113th overall out of 680 companies honoured by Fortune Magazine. The companies were selected from a pool of approximately 1 500 candidates from Fortune's Global 500 database, along with the largest US-based companies ranked by revenue, representing 52 industries and 30 countries. Executives, directors and analysts were asked to rate enterprises within their own industry based on nine criteria, from investment value and quality of management and products, to social responsibility and the ability to attract talent. In November 2019, Continental Tyre SA was recognised as a Top Employer for the third consecutive year by the Top Employers Institute in the Netherlands. This annual review recognises companies for excellence in employee conditions, nurturing and developing talent throughout all levels of the organisation, and striving to continuously optimise employment practices. "It is a great honour for Continental to be selected as one of the 'World's Most Admired Companies' by Fortune Magazine for the fourth consecutive year, and for Continental Tyre South Africa to receive the 'Top Employer' certification for the past three years," says Shaun Uys, MD of Continental Tyre SA. "We aim to create a healthy and productive work environment where team members are challenged, are encouraged to be a part of the company's growth, and are empowered to take charge of their personal career journeys while also leading a balanced life outside the office. "This culture leads to a more engaged workforce that helps drive innovation, delivers the highest product quality and strives for success at all levels of the business. All of these elements are essential for us to remain competitive, and gives us the ability to respond quickly to an ever-changing automotive landscape," Uys explains. Among other industry plaudits received by Continental in the employment field are a top 100 ranking on the Forbes' Americas Best Employers list and being certified as an official Great Place to Work; one of the best companies for women by Fairygodboss; and Best Employer for Diversity by Forbes Magazine. As a multi-faceted global tyre and technology company, Continental employs more than 244 000 people in 60 countries and markets. Globally, the Continental Tire division comprises around 56 000 employees. The Port Elizabeth-based manufacturing facility is the only Continental tyre plant in Africa, the company employs approximately 1300 people in South Africa and the Sub-Saharan Africa region. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 