 Port Elizabeth - Police in Port Elizabeth have partnered with local NGOs to tackle bullying and substance abuse in local schools. "All students should be safe from bullying and feel comfortable and at ease when at school. Students who don't feel safe or part of the school cannot learn effectively and reach their full potential," explained police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu. "Bullying is a problem that affects millions of children around the world. The effects of bullying are difficult for any learner to bear especially in situations where there are no programmes in place to equip these children to deal with it. "It is therefore important for schools to work with various organisations and to build relationships with the police and other law enforcement agencies to curb this type of negative behaviour among the learners." She said that on Wednesday, SAPS Bethesldorp and the Community Policing Forum partnered with non-profit organisations known as I Protect Me and Choice Substance Support Group visited the West End Primary School and addressed the learners on the issues of bullying and substance abuse. "This awareness programme was welcomed by the school and all the speakers were dynamic and most certainly made an impact on the children," Col Naidu said. "Initiatives such as this must be ongoing and regular visits to the schools will definitely eradicate the abuse of drugs and bullying within the school environment. "Learners were encouraged to expose the bullies and to immediately report any incidents of bullying to the school to the police so that the problem can be ‘nipped in the bud.’ "Raising awareness among school children will continue at all schools in an effort to educate them on the dangers and consequences of bullying and substance abuse." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 