 Port Elizabeth - Registration is continuing at the Nelson Mandela University where a group of protesting students blockaded entrances to some Nelson Mandela University campuses on Monday morning. "At the time, the reasons for the blockades had not been communicated to University management through the agreed upon protocols," the university said. "A number of concessions have been granted to financially needy and academically deserving students in a continued effort to broaden access to higher education," the NMU said. "A significant challenge that arises at this time of the year relates to student funding, which enables a number of processes such as registration, residence placement, the disbursement of allowances to funded students and so forth," it added. "The University is aware of students who are still awaiting funding statuses or having difficulty accessing their financial aid allowances due to a number of reasons. "While students may have been approved for funding from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS), there is still a verification process that needs to be carried out before they can be cleared for registration, following which NSFAS releases allowances. "As such, the University’s Financial Aid office is in constant liaison with NSFAS in a bid to address challenges and bottlenecks experienced by students in this regard." As at Friday, 14 February: University financial concessions The University said that it remains committed to ensuring that no academically deserving, financially needy student is denied access to higher education due to financial constraints. "As such, the institution made available a number of concessions," it said. These include the rollover of student debt and the down-payment exemption – which enables a student to proceed to registration without making the upfront payment, and pay it off in the course of the year – to students who meet the following criteria: To date, the University has received 3577 applications for University financial concessions. Of these, 3 255 applications have met the financial concessions criteria. There is a verification process currently underway for the 322 unsuccessful applications. NSFAS new applications The university said that more than 600 students, who had not applied for NSFAS within the prescribed deadline for various reasons, were assisted with late applications and have since been granted funding statuses. "There are 433 returning students who have been assisted with provisional statuses, while awaiting the outcomes of their NSFAS funding appeals." "As at Monday, 17 February, a total of 25 371 students have successfully completed their registration since the process commenced in January. This figure is up by 1.4% compared to the same time last year and 4.5% since 2018," the NMU said. "This figure is set to increase, as more students are cleared for registration and make use of the late registration period, which ends on 28 February. "The University has made notable progress in admitting students from Quintiles 1 to 3 as compared to last year. This year, 12% of first time enrolments are from Quintile 1 schools, 9.7% from Quintile 2 and about 30% from Quintile 3. This is up by 4, 3.1 and 3.7 percentage points, respectively." It added that this figure is set to increase as more students are granted funding statuses and proceed to registration. "The University’s Student Housing office has been working to place students into their allocated rooms, as well as assist unfunded students with temporary placements while they await their NSFAS statuses and other financial aid outcomes," the university said. "So far, on-campus residences are full, while there are about 600 vacant beds at accredited off-campus accommodation establishments. "There has been significant progress made with regards to the construction of on-campus residences towards the planned 2000 beds, with George Campus nearing completion and North Campus having recently commenced." The University said that it is committed to assessing student transport challenges in liaison with student leadership. "Mandela University remains resolute in its commitment to ensure that every student admitted to the University is afforded the necessary support towards their access and success.  To this end, the University will continue its ongoing engagement with student leadership, with a view to responding to issues as they arise." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 