 East London - The South African Restructuring and Insolvency Practitioners Association (SARIPA) has welcomed the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa, that the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) 'to investigate allegations of corruption, fraud and maladministration' in the offices of the Master of the High Court around the country. This has resulted in the temporary closure of all 15 Master’s offices around South Africa to the public and staff, excluding the Deputy Master of each office who is required to assist the SIU with all information relevant to the scope of the investigation. The Master, as a creature of statute and a branch of the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development is regulated in its duties and powers by various Acts. COO of SARIPA, René Bekker, commented, “The 15 Master’s Offices across South Africa play a critical role”. The Insolvency division of the Master’s Office is of particular importance as the role of the Master is to regulate and supervise the administration of insolvent estates by appointing insolvency practitioners to administer the insolvent estates, safeguard all documents received in respect of any estate and to process all enquiries in relation to the insolvent estates speedily and professionally. Bekker noted, “Unfortunately, our members encounter difficulties daily, for example, long delays are experienced in required responses from the Master’s offices and files at the Master’s offices go missing resulting in the delayed administration of insolvent estates”. SARIPA believes that such an in-depth investigation will assist in the identification and resolution of problems which have been identified by insolvency practitioners and SARIPA members. The association are optimistic that the investigation will result in a report setting out remedial steps towards delivering efficient and professional services to the citizens of South Africa. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 