 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Nelson Mandela Bay says it has written to the acting City Manager, Noxolo Nqwazi, to request her intervention to expedite the plan to give residents (domestic customers) an amnesty period to allow them to come clean if they are stealing electricity to avoid fines or prosecution. "In June 2018, during the DA-led coalitions time in government an amnesty plan was presented to the infrastructure portfolio committee after electricity losses had increased," said Masixole Zinto Cllr - DA NMB Spokesperson for Infrastructure and Engineering. "Tampering is a contributing factor to the non-technical losses of electricity. "Electricity losses are increasing from 13.13% in the 2016/17 financial year to 14.3% 2018/19. For the first 6 months of the current financial year, electricity losses are at 16.6%. The predicted shortfall in Electricity Revenue is R200 million." Zinto said that punitive measures to address tampering are in place, but indigent customers cannot afford to pay the charges. "The amnesty process provides the opportunity for residents who have tampered with municipal equipment to apply for amnesty in order for the municipality to normalise the tampered conditions," he described. "Since the ANC-led coalition of corruption took over government in August 2018 this plan has been placed on the back burner, or is simply being ignored while our people are being disconnected and might face the very real possibility of prosecution and the Metro keeps losing electricity due to tampering. "We request that the acting City Manager intervenes by making sure that the item comes to a full Council meeting." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 