 Port Elizabeth - All eyes will be on Eskom on Monday afternoon when it gives an important update to South Africa about the status of the grid following a week of Stage 2 load shedding. Eskom lifted Stage 2 loadshedding at 21:00 on Sunday night as its emergency reserves have reportedly adequately recovered to allow for a reduction in the depth of loadshedding. However, taking into consideration the peak traffic rush hour, Eskom said it would resume implementing Stage 1 loadshedding on Monday morning. "We will give a further update to the public on Monday afternoon as to the state of the system going forward. The risk of loadshedding remains for the week." It added that its teams were working hard to reduce the unplanned outages. "We also continue conducting critical maintenance on units that are currently on planned outages to reduce the depth and frequency of loadshedding," the power utility said. "Eskom also wishes to remind South Africans that there is an increased possibility of loadshedding over the next 18 months as we are conducting critical maintenance to restore the ageing plant to good health. "While dam levels have recovered adequately enough to allow for a reduction to Stage 1 loadshedding, there is still some work being done to improve diesel stocks." Eskom further said that customers are advised that any additional shifts in demand and on the system may require a change in the loadshedding stage. "We therefore request customers to help reduce demand and use electricity sparingly, taking into consideration that better managed demand will shorten this bout of loadshedding." To assist in reducing the stage of loadshedding, it appealed to customers to use electricity sparingly: "We appeal to customers to revisit their loadshedding schedules on the Eskom (https://loadshedding.eskom.co.za) or local municipal websites, depending on their electricity supplier, to review amendments." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 