 Port Elizabeth - Eskom on Saturday announced that it is implementing Stage 3 loadshedding - and as expected inviting the ire of South Africans. Eskom had not implemented loadshedding since Wednesday - and announced Stage 2 loadshedding on Friday night. "Despite some units having returned to service last night, Stage 3 loadshedding will be implemented from 09:00 today to accommodate the shortage of capacity and to replenish emergency reserves, until 05:00 on Monday," Eskom said. "Diesel reserves for open cycle gas turbines and water reserves for the hydro-pumped storage schemes were utilized extensively yesterday and overnight to supplement the shortage of capacity and are not at adequate levels to sustain the capacity shortage for today." It said that unplanned outages or breakdowns were at 10 612 MW as at 06:00 this morning while planned maintenance is at 6 574MW. "As the system is vulnerable, any additional changes on the system performance may require a shift in stage at short notice. We will provide regular updates. While we regret the short notice, we have communicated earlier that any shift on the system will require the implementation of loadshedding at short notice," the utility said. "We remind customers that loadshedding is a highly controlled process implemented by the System Operator to ensure the security of the power system and to prevent a national blackout. "Eskom reminds South Africans that there is a possibility of increased loadshedding over the next 18 months as we are conducting critical maintenance to restore the ageing plant to good health." It further appealed to customers to continue to use electricity sparingly and to assist us in reducing demand: "We appeal to customers to revisit their loadshedding schedules on the Eskom (http://loadshedding.eskom.co.za) or local municipal websites, depending on their electricity supplier, to review amendments." South Africans took to social media to express their outrage at the latest development. 'Stage 3' and 'Loadshedding' were trending at the top on Twitter on Saturday morning.   #POWERALERT 1Date: 15 February 2020Stage 3 rotational loadshedding will be implemented from 09:00 today until 05:00 on Monday @SABCNewsOnline @IOL @eNCA @ewnupdates @TimesLIVE @News24 @TheCitizen_News @Moneyweb @TheSAnews @SAgovnews @SaturdayStar @SowetanLIVE pic.twitter.com/PJoCtc8n3Z   So because you wanted the nation to watch the EFF act like clowns. We(the people of this nation) must suffer now over the weekend and possibly the whole week ahead. You guys are really a piece of work.  At the SONA it was said that load shedding has to be handled in a 'predictable' manner.ANNOUNCING AN HOUR OR TWO BEFORE IT STARTS IS NOT PREDICTABLE.It is incompetent and lazy. I get you have a social media team. But they need to wake up and actually do their jobs.  My favorite part about that announcement is that they used reserves "extensively" over the last 2 days - meaning that they were barely able to keep the lights on for SONA.  #LoadsheddingEskom has implemented Stage 3 loadshedding! pic.twitter.com/TiKs6MkC7u  Dear Eskom please explain how do you move from Stage 2 loadshedding to stage 1 to stage 0 then straight to stage 3 in one week. Do you just throw a dice ? #Loadshedding  FFS, South Africa’s power problem feels so flipping erratic.Wednesday: No Loadshedding.Thursday: No Loadshedding.Friday: No Loadshedding.Friday Night: Stage 2Saturday Morning: Stage 3Sunday: Not sure.Monday: What is going on?#Stage3 #Loadshedding #PowerProblem ??  So 2 days of no loadshedding for SONA has now put us on Stage 3 for the remainder of the weekend.This, in itself, is the real State of the Nation. pic.twitter.com/KVlFntrZIu  Stage 3 means that keeping SONA sanitized of service delivery failure burned all the diesel stores and emptied all the pumped storage dams. So we spend the weekend frantically replenishing stocks before Monday. Just podcast the damned speech, let Julius Melanoma toyi toyi at home  How do we must from no loadshedding to Stage 3? Smh!  Save this tweet.On the day of the Budget Speech next week there will be no #Loadshedding.Suddenly Eskom will wake some magic, situation will be stable, less planned & unplanned breakdowns, plenty reserves of water & diesel.Pretty amazing these occurrences. ???? pic.twitter.com/2JROSuR3rN  If we can have #SONA everyday, then that means there wouldn't be #Loadshedding pic.twitter.com/MuEbN0vQFk  For all those that chased away the EFF from Parliament and defended Pravin Gordan I want you to know that I am sitting in the dark and my battery is on 20% so I would like for you guys to make a plan so that I can charge my phone and iron my clothes#Loadshedding#Valentine2020  SONA is done now and we are going back to dark ages. #Eskom #Stage2 #Loadshedding pic.twitter.com/vS8r7uRLoO  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 