 The Department of Energy on Monday announced the official petrol price for February 2020. The fuel price announced came in line with a prediction by the Automotive Association of South Africa that petrol prices would drop in February 2020. The February fuel prices come into effect on Wednesday. South Africa’s fuel prices are adjusted on a monthly basis, informed by international and local factors. International factors include the fact that South Africa imports both crude oil and finished products at a price set at the international level, including importation costs, e.g. shipping costs. "The main reason for these fuel prices changes is the strengthening of the Rand against the US Dollar and lower crude oil prices during the period under review when compared to the previous one," the Department of Energy explained. "The average Brent Crude oil price decreased from 67.31 USD to 64.24 USD per barrel during the period under review. The main reason for the lower oil prices is the impact of reduced demand due to travel restrictions in China following the Coronavirus outbreak. "On the finished products, the international prices of 95 octane petrol decreased by about 7.00 c/l as a result of reduced demand for petrol. On the other hand, the prices of diesel and illuminating paraffin increased slightly by about 2.00 c/l, due to higher demand for middle distillates, in particular gas, for space heating in Europe." It added that the Rand appreciated, on average, against the US Dollar (from 14.47 to 14.32 Rand per USD) during the period under review when compared to the previous one. "This led to lower contributions to the Basic Fuel Prices of petrol, diesel and illuminating paraffin by about 7.00 c/l." Based on current local and international factors, the fuel prices for February 2020 will be adjusted as follows: The fuel prices schedule for the different zones will be published on Tuesday, the 4th of February 2020. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 