 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (DASO) claimed responsibility for the closure of entrances to the Nelson Mandela University on Monday. In a statement, DASO said that since the beginning of January, it has been the only organization which was at the forefront for championing students’ issues such as Admission of prospective students, Accommodations admissions, drafting of NSFAS appeals for prospective and senior students and Academic exclusions appeals. "Noticing that many students were experiencing challenges in terms of registrations: they weren’t cleared for registration on account of previous debts, waiting got NSAFS appeals, changing courses, being a postgrad and having been admitted through CACH in 2019," the organisation said. "DASO decided to create various links and submitted the details of the students to management in order to be cleared for registration. about 3685 students were assisted through our links. "Having realized that not all the students were assisted we opted for a sit-in at Embizweni where we submitted our memorandum of demands. However not all the demands were met, and we made clear that it is high time to take the matter into the street so that MEDIA can help us to put pressure onto management. "We are not surprised but very much disappointed that management says they didn’t know about these demands. It clearly shows SASCO led SRC has no visions for NMU students, and they have no sense of urgency regarding the challenges NMU students are going through." DASO said that about 400 students have been cleared to register from the list we have submitted to management through free registration concession. 232 Students received AOD form from the list we have submitted which makes a total of 632 students being cleared for registration. "Following today’s shutdown DASO visited few residences off-campus as many students were being evicted, to be exact 24 students got evicted. We negotiated with the landlords to bring back those students in their residences while we are coming up with a permanent’s solutions for them," the student organisation said. "After such a pressure we are pleased to say private accommodation has been accepted this is after SASCO led SRC agreed to opt out the private accommodation option." It said that while university management says 17 036 students had been granted statuses, it doesn’t say the very same number has been cleared for registration. "Out of 17036, 11557 allowances had been paid to NSFAS funded students. Management doesn’t say anything about a difference of 5479. As Daso we are going to investigate on this 5479 and try solve this issue applying urgency as well." DASO said that those who have not received their Intelli, rest assured that you’ll get it before the end of this week. "Financial aid is busy processing those allowances." "We have put pressure on Financial Aid to fast track the process of Appeals outcomes as its been far too long since students applied," the orgainsation said. "We are aware that 433 appeals have been approved from the 2000 appeals and we have tasked Financial aid to reevaluate the 1.6 appeals not approved. "We are giving management till end of this week to process those Intellis, Finish up with registrations clearance and give students HX statuses. We will not allow to be silenced by people who just woke up and smelt the coffee. "We will not allow students to be mislead by Sasco Led SRC who are outright useless for lack of better words. We will deal with this SRC and the Management if they do not solve student issues, and that is a promise." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 