 Eskom says stage 2 loadshedding will continue on Thursday and on Friday. The power utility said that there is also a high probability of loadshedding over the weekend. Eskom said that it will continue to provide regular updates on the situation.    "Eskom wishes to remind South Africans that there is an increased possibility of loadshedding over the next 18 months as Eskom is conducting critical maintenance to restore its ageing plant to good health," the power utility said. "Customers are also advised that any additional shifts on the system may require a change in the loadshedding stage. We therefore request customers to use electricity sparingly and to reduce demand during this period of loadshedding. "As we continue to replenish the emergency reserves at our pumped storage schemes and open cycle gas turbines (OCGTs), we will continue to explore the pilot programme of providing loadshedding respite during the morning and evening traffic rush hours in the week. "However this is not possible today owing to the available generating capacity and the need to replenish emergency reserves." Eskom said that unplanned outages or breakdowns were at 11 567MW as at 06:00 this morning. Critical maintenance is being done on units that are currently on planned outages as well as some of those on unplanned outages to ensure timeous return to service. To assist us in reducing the stage of loadshedding, we appeal to customers to continue to use electricity sparingly: "We appeal to customers to revisit their loadshedding schedules on the Eskom (https://loadshedding.eskom.co.za) or local municipal websites, depending on their electricity supplier, to review amendments." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 