 Port Elizabeth - Whether you are moving into new offices or revamping your old space, Workstation Office Furniture has affordable and innovative solutions that will help you get the most out of your working space. Many agree that having an efficient office layout promotes employee satisfaction and the ease at which they can perform their duties. The result is a more efficient and profitable operation. Established in 1995, Workstation Office Furniture has become a trusted name in the office furniture space across the Eastern Cape and South Africa. Today, their list of happy clients includes small and big players in both the private and public business sectors. Workstation specialises in all manner of workstations, reception areas and office layouts. The services include full space planning and design; customised desking; seating solutions; professionally designed reception areas; boardroom furniture and filing systems. When your beautiful old furniture breaks, their furniture upholstery department will be glad to give it a new lease on life. If you are moving offices, they also have experienced teams that can relocate your office on your behalf plus qualified project managers to oversee the larger projects. “Expect great service is our motto and our highly experienced team works hard to make sure every interaction we have with our customers produces the result that they want,” says owner, John Parry. You can visit their showroom and factory in North-End, Port Elizabeth, but you can still get a sense of what’s on offer from their website from their online catalogue. With the support of a very experienced team, Workstation Office Furniture is able to deliver any office furniture or office equipment to any destination in South Africa. What also separates them from other office furniture suppliers is that all their products are fully guaranteed. Thus, you can trust that you are getting only the best! For those looking for quality office furniture on a budget, Workstation Office Furniture also has a fully-stocked clearance store in Newton Park, Port Elizabeth. See their excellent range of new and discounted office furniture products. “By far the easiest business I have ever done. I got an immediate appointment, excellent customer service and prompt delivery of furniture ordered. Very impressed!” wrote Laura Hierons ontheir Facebook page. Bruce Warburtonalso wrote; “Dealt with Bianca. Perfect service, construction and better than expected (promised) delivery. Great all round. Thank you!” Workstation Office Furniture is located at 1 Korsten St, Central, Port Elizabeth (the showroom) and at 307 Cape Road, Newton Park, Port Elizabeth (the clearance store). Call 041 586 0258 (showroom) or 041 363 0588 (the clearance store) or emailsales@workstation.co.za. Here is their location on Google Maps – theshowroom and theclearance store. 