 Port Elizabeth - Eskom confirmed that South Africa is to have Stage 2 load shedding until Thursday this week. "Stage 2 rotational loadshedding will continue from 09:00 [on Monday] until Thursday at 06:00, with respite between 06:00 to 09:00 each day, when possible," the power utility said on Sunday.  #POWERALERT 2Date: 2 February 2020Stage 2 rotational loadshedding will continue from 09:00 tomorrow until Thursday at 06:00, with respite between 06:00 to 09:00 each day, when possible@SABCNewsOnline @IOL @eNCA @ewnupdates @News24 @SowetanLIVE @TheSAnews @SAgovnews pic.twitter.com/hNv9ewXpMq  "While rotational loadshedding is unavoidable, in an effort to minimise the impact on traffic, we will endeavor to provide a break in loadshedding from 06:00 to 09:00 each day in the week, when possible," Eskom said. "Unplanned outages or breakdowns were at 11 831MW as at 17:00 [on Sunday afternoon]." It still said that while good progress has been made in replenishing water for pumped storage schemes, they have not fully replenished diesel for open cycle gas turbines, necessitating that Stage 2 loadshedding be implemented during the week until Thursday. "We will continue to monitor the system closely and will give periodic updates on the status of the power system as things may change at short notice," Eskom said. "We regret that loadshedding has a negative impact on South Africa. Critical maintenance is being done to units on planned outages as well as some of those on unplanned outages to ensure timeous return to service." To assist us in reducing the stage of loadshedding, we appeal to customers to continue to use electricity sparingly: "We will keep South Africans informed about the status of the electricity system and our recovery efforts throughout this period," Eskom said. "Customers are advised to check their loadshedding schedules on the Eskom website or municipal websites depending on who supplies them." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 