 Port Elizabeth - Eskom on Thursday announced that it was implementing Stage 2 loadshedding with the prospect of the loadshedding to go into the weekend. "We regret that Stage 2 rotational loadshedding will be implemented from 09:00 on Thursday until 06:00 on Saturday owing to the loss of 3 additional units overnight that has increased the shortage in capacity," Eskom said. "There is a high probability that loadshedding will continue over the weekend, as there is a need to replenish reserves for the coming week. Unplanned outages or breakdowns were at 11 938MW as at 05:30 this morning, while planned maintenance is 4 654MW. "Emergency reserves are currently being utilised to supplement the shortage in capacity. While we regret the short notice, we have communicated earlier that any shift on the system will require the implementation of loadshedding at short notice. We will provide regular updates." Eskom reminded South Africans that there is a possibility of increased loadshedding over the next 18 months as it is conducting critical maintenance to restore the ageing plant to good health. "We request customers to continue to use electricity sparingly and to assist us in reducing demand." • Set air-conditioners’ average temperature at 23ºC • Switch off your geysers over peak periods • Use the cold water tap rather than using the geyser every time • Set your swimming pool pump cycle to run twice a day, three hours at a time • At the end of the day, turn off computers, copiers, printers and fax machines at the switch. "We appeal to customers to revisit their loadshedding schedules on the Eskom (http://loadshedding.eskom.co.za) or local municipal websites, depending on their electricity supplier, to review amendments." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 