 Port Elizabeth - The Port Elizabeth office of the South African Weather Service has warned that the Eastern Cape is experiencing high temperatures at the moment. "Areas over the interior west of Cradock and Fort Beaufort can expect temperatures in the high 30’s and reaching 40C in places," said Garth Sampson, the SA Weather Service's Client Liaison Officer for the Eastern Cape. "Along the coast temperatures can reach up to 33 C in places. "This accompanied by high humidity’s along the coast and adjacent interior over the entire region (between Plettenberg Bay and Port St Johns) means that discomfort levels have already reached 110 in places." Sampson said that this is considered as hazardous to health. "The public is advised to cease strenuous outdoor activity." He said that it is highly recommended that all school sport be cancelled. "Conditions will cool slightly after sunset," Sampson said. "Conditions will be even more uncomfortable tomorrow [Tuesday]." Discomfort Index A.            Introduction When temperature and humidity are high at the same time, humans ability to cool their bodies through sweating are reduced. This can be a real threat: Precautions •             Stay indoors in a cool room near a fan if possible •             The old and infirm must take extra care •             Listen to the radio or TV for warnings. •             Cease strenuous outdoor activity if advised •             Avoid playing sport •             Dress in light weight clothes •             Drink plenty of liquids NOT alcohol Track 16 A.            Introduction HIGH DISCOMFORT AND HEAT WAVES DID YOU KNOW? The temperature in a motor-car can rise to more than 10 degrees higher than the outside temperature in just 10 minutes and 20 C in 30 minutes. . Do not leave pets or children in motor-cars, especially in hot conditions. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 