 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Nelson Mandela Bay on Wednesday said that it wants Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Infrastructure and Engineering, Andile Lungisa, to be investigated over alleged interference in tender processes. "While service delivery in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has ground to a halt and the City is on the brink of financial ruin, the ANC-led coalition of corruption is no longer even trying to hide its flouting of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) and the councillors code of conduct as contained in  Schedule 1 of the Municipal Systems Act," described Jonathan Lawack Cllr - DA NMB Caucus Leader. "A recent letter, sent by the Member of the Mayoral Committee(MMC) for Infrastructure and Engineering, Cllr Andile Lungisa, to local companies, shows him deliberately flouting municipal laws by inviting companies to tender for a construction plant. (letter attached) "In accordance with the MFMA councillors are not supposed to be involved in anything related to tenders and can be criminally charged if they are found to do so." Lawack said that in terms of section 117 of the MFMA, a councillor may not be a member of a municipal bid committee or any other committee evaluating or approving tenders, quotations, contracts or other bids, nor attend any such meeting as an observer. "Also, in terms of section 118(a) of the MFMA, no person may interfere with the supply chain management system of a municipality or municipal entity," he said. "The councillors code of conduct also states that no councillor is allowed to interfere in the administration of the municipality. "I have written to the Speaker, Cllr Buyelwa Mafaya and requested that this issue be referred to the rules and ethics committee for further investigation and a decision be taken on whether Cllr Lungisa should be sanctioned by council. "We will not stand by and watch the further destruction of our City by the coalition of corruption and criminal elements within it." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 