 Fellow South Africans, The annual State of the Nation address is an opportunity for me and my government to report back on previous commitments and set out our task for the coming 12 months. Many of you have – quite rightly – become impatient at the slow pace of progress made on our promises of a “new dawn”. After serious introspection, I realized that to resolve the many crises facing us – record unemployment, mismanaged and corrupt SOEs, collapsing municipalities acting with impunity, a failing education system for most of our scholars; epidemic violence against women and children – require a different style of leadership. I am a consensus seeker. I like to let all around the table feel winners after our negotiations. This leadership was good for the transition to democracy in 1994 and for the constitution-writing process thereafter. But I realized that the very nature of a “crisis” is that it requires immediate and effective action. I am reminded of the fact that former President FW de Klerk – present here tonight - did not consult his party and try and reach unity on the radical decision of 2 Feb 1990 to unban organisations and set political prisoners free. He acted by his conscience and risked the unity of his party for the sake of the greater good of all South Africans. I therefore announce tonight that I am indeed the President of the Republic and the time has come to take decisive actions despite disunity on many matters in my own party and amongst alliance partners. A wounded and dying patient needs urgent surgery. The pain inflicted in the short term by the sole decision-making surgeon, working in a trusted team, is the only chance for a longer term return to health. Despite all our ideological and lofty statements about a “developmental and competent state”, we have to confess tonight: Under the ANC we have become a failing and corrupt state, inflicting pain on the most vulnerable whom we claim to represent, and causing economic hardship instead of growth. It is the ANC that protected a corrupt regime for almost a decade. We were blinded by party loyalty. It is now time to act: These are some of the actions we plan. There will be resistance. But I have a duty to lead according to my conscience and for the sake of all South Africans. Let us take hands. Tuna mina! Your public servant, Cyril Ramaphosa ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 