 East London - Efforts to provide drought relief support to households, livestock owners and farmers in communities of the Eastern Cape that are affected by drought are ongoing. "The provincial government has submitted a request to the national government to help with additional funds to supplements these efforts," said Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha, Spokesperson for Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane. "The Province is not about to lose the money it has requested from national government, such a suggestion is false, wrong and an attempt to grab. "The main reason for this was because the money that was available from the provincial government's purse was not adequate to provide relief to those affected by drought in the province." He said that the Premier is aware that the Department of Water Affairs is processing the transfer of this money to the province. "It is important to stressor emphasize that the drought relief, together with the request for additional funds from national government, were both made after the provincial government declared drought disaster through the gazetting process. "A report on the status of drought, together with the new declaration of drought will be discussed at the next EXCO meeting taking place on Wednesday in Bhisho," Sicwetsha said. "In the meanwhile, the provincial government departments of COGTA and DRDAR continue to provide water, livestock feed to households, livestock owners and farmers throughout the province. "The statement by the DA is ignorant of government processes and sadly it is trying to use the current situation in our province to cause panic. "We think it is uncalled for and we would like the people of the province not to panic." Sicwetsha further said that people who need additional information on this matter and who need help can contact relevant government offices in their localities to get help and more information. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 