 Port Elizabeth - Police in Port Elizabeth on Monday morning said that they are monitoring the situation at the Nelson Mandela University were all entrances have been blocked. "Nelson Mandela University is closed. All entrances are blocked with branches, denying any access to the premises. #SAPS maintaining #PoliceVisibility with POP Unit and SAPS Humewood members deployed to monitor the situation. ME," the SAPS posted on Twitter.  #sapsEC Nelson Mandela University is closed. All entrances are blocked with branches, denying any acces to the premises. #SAPS maintaining #PoliceVisibility with POP Unit and SAPS Humewood members deployed to monitor the situation. ME  Meanwhile, the Nelson Mandela University confirmed the situation, Tweeting: "Access to North & South Campus has been blocked. Students & staff are encouraged to liaise with their lecturers & line managers, respectively, for alternative learning &work methods. The University is trying to ascertain the reasons for the blockade & will communicate updates."  Access to North & South Campus has been blocked. Students & staff are encouraged to liaise with their lecturers & line managers, respectively, for alternative learning &work methods. The University is trying to ascertain the reasons for the blockade & will communicate updates.  On Sunday, student organisation - Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (DASO), which had been staging a sit-in at the Nelson Mandela University said it had met with the university management concerning student grievances over Registration, Accommodation, Intelli, NSFAS Appeals and the university's Shuttle service for students staying off-campus.   Meanwhile, another student organisation, SASCO, called on all un-registered students and students, who don't have accommodation must join them at Madibaz shirt at 12:00pm, Monday for a Mass Meeting. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 