 Bhisho - MEC for Health in the Eastern Cape, Sindiswa Gomba, announced that she has strengthened the implementation of COVID-19 containment efforts by deploying Chief Directors and District Project Leaders in the respective districts of the province. The team comprising of Chief Directors and District Project leaders will work closely with the current District Managers. The District Project Leaders are as follows: Dr Singilizwe Moko is deployed at Buffalo City Metro and Amathole, Mr Xolela Somahela is deployed at Joe Gqabi, Ms Miyakazi Nokwe is deployed at OR Tambo and Dr Litha Matiwane has already been allocated to Nelson Mandela Metro. Dr Matiwane’s secondment to the Nelson Mandela Metro stems from the MEC and Minister’s visit in that part of the Province as the spike in numbers of COVID-19 positive cases became a matter that needed to be arrested with immediate effect. The upscaling of massive screening and testing in the Metro also needed an intervention at the level of Dr Matiwane’s stature. The MEC is proud to announce the appointments of the following clinical personnel who will be seized with the task of heading the Districts at Chief Director level; Ms Sindiswa Gede to head Amathole, Ms Nomkhitha Mtonjane to steer Alfred Nzo, Ms Sindiswa Tywabi appointed for Chris Hani and Ms Dalene De Vos to head the Nelson Mandela Metro. These efforts comes at a time when the department is busy identifying and refurbishing some wards throughout the province working in partnership with the Provincial Department of Public Works in order to quarantine as well as isolate COVID-19 positive cases and contacts. Throughout the province the department has identified 2025 beds for high care or ICU, Isolation and quarantine purposes. In addition tertiary hospitals will provide high or critical care beds and some regional hospital will have critical care beds and isolation units. In district hospitals the Department has wards for critical care, isolation and quarantine. The process of allocating beds will be done in phases excluding Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital commencing by putting up 500 additional beds per district when the need arise and depending on the population of the district. On the staffing front, on top of 1000 Staff Nurses and Nursing Assistants appointed earlier, plans are afoot to employ 300 additional Professional Nurses. Plans are also underway to add more medical doctors as well. Earlier, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize identified 20 Cuban doctors for the Eastern Cape to assist in various field in the battle to contain COVID-19 in our communities. “Once again as the country is in Level 4, I urge everyone to seriously observe Lockdown Regulations as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. I applaud the increasing number of recovery cases in our province. It is at this point where I want to emphasize the importance of safeguarding the gains we have achieved during Level 5. As we approach the Flu Season, our cases are bound to skyrocket, we must strive to stay safe at all times,” said MEC Gomba. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 