 Bhisho - A total of 56 people travelling from the Western Cape to the Eastern Cape have tested positive for COVID-19, the Eastern Cape Dept of Health announced on Thursday. The people entered the province through Tsitsikamma and Eberdeen. To date, 2090 people have been tested on the Western Cape and Eastern Cape borders with 56 testing positive for the coronavirus while 29516 people were screened. A total of 9524 transported people from the Western Cape between April 29 and May 4. Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba said she was concerned by the high number of people travelling from the Western Cape to the Eastern Cape. "We understand that inter-provincial travelling is allowed but having so many people who have tested positive for COVID-19 coming to the Eastern Cape undermines the good work that we have been doing and continue doing. "Why the 56 people were not tested in the Western Cape is beyond me. We need all provinces to work together in containing the spread of this virus," she said. There were also 78 people who had travelled from Cape Town who were intercepted in Elliotdale. Another 110 people had to be rerouted to Mphekweni and Fish River in Port Alfred for screening and testing by health officials. They had also travelled from Western Cape . All their contacts are being traced and will be tested. As of last night, there were 849 confirmed cases in province, 388 recoveries and 18 deaths. Gomba said: "We would like to send our heartfelt condolences to the families, friends and loved ones of the people who have died COVID-19 related deaths." One of the issues that has been raised is the alleged shortage of personal protective equipment for health workers at our facilities. This could not be any further from the truth as we have established that the PPE are piling up at some of the facilities that have seen workers striking because of what they claim is a shortage of PPE. The Department will investigate why some workers have embarked on strikes citing a shortage of PPE while there is no shortage. The MEC has reassured health workers of her commitment to never compromise the safety of all front line soldiers under her command. In this regard her office visited a number of institutions to ascertain both the readyness and availability of PPEs. We have been saying we would never put our workers in harm's way. Our dedicated health workers deserve praise for all the hard work they have done and continue doing in this fight against this virus. The 388 recoveries are testament to their hard work.Most importantly people must adhere to the regulations and stay home, wash their hands frequently with soap or sanitiser and social distance. More results are still expected from National Health Laboratory Services. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 