 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Health Department on Wednesday said it has been criticised for what some have labelled as poor handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Yes, the Department has had challenges like any other province because this pandemic is new to us all, but at all times our objective has always been to save people's lives," said spokesperson, Sizwe Kupelo. "Our dedicated health workers have really gone above and beyond the call of duty during this challenging time. "We cannot thank them enough and yet more is still needed from them. "The fact that we have 1,373 active cases of the coronavirus is testament to their dedication in saving lives." Kupelo said that not much has been said about the 1,491 people that have recovered from this deadly virus. "From 2,864 confirmed cases to now having 1,373 active cases, our nurses and doctors have been our heroes without capes. "Unfortunately, some of our health workers are part of the 70 people that have lost their lives to this pandemic. We send our heartfelt condolences to their families," he described. "Like the soldiers they were, our workers died with their boots on. "They died on the frontline of this epic fight. They died protecting all 6.6 million of us in the Eastern Cape. "This includes health workers both in the private sector and in government facilities. May their souls rest in peace. "Those left behind are continuing with the fight against this invisible enemy." Kupelo said that as the Health Department, they will continue arming health workers with the necessary protective gear so that they are not vulnerable to the virus. "The fight is far from over as we are expecting a surge in new infections as we move to Alert Level 3 of the national lockdown from June 1. "Until such a time a vaccine has been found, our workers from general assistants to porters, clerks, nurses and doctors, will continue reporting for duty and treated everyone, including those who have been infected with COVID-19," he added. "We would like to call on everyone to adhere to the regulations, practice good personal hygiene by washing their hands with soap and water regularly, keeping a distance of at least 2 metres from others and wearing masks when out in public. "If we can all do that, our health system and workers will not be overwhelmed by a huge number of new infections. "Let us all play our part so that health workers will get to do some people are failing to do what we are being asked to do: stay home with their loved ones." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 