 East London - The Buffalo City Metro COVID 19 Command Council has taken a decision to review and revoke all the permits that are currently being used by hawkers and spaza shops. This follows reports that have been picked up that some of the hawkers and spaza shop owners have been operating on fraudulent permits devised under the pretence of municipal letterheads. The Metro’s Command Council has decided that it will issue new permits to all hawkers and spaza shop owners operating within the City. The reissue of permit process is effective immediately until Monday 18 May 2020 and thereafter anyone without new permits will be dealt with by law enforcement authorities as per the National Disaster Act stipulations. During the window period, hawkers and spaza shop owners are expected to apply for new permits in order to comply with the regulations. Spaza shops owners are also expected to have the required business registration documents. As part of tightening the system, the new permits will have a photo of the trader amongst the following details: Name and surname, ID number, permit number, BCM official stamps and the original signatures. This is expected to reduce any risk of illegal trading and enable Law Enforcement officers to clearly distinguish a business that is legal. The City appeals to the traders to adhere to all the Level 4 regulations which include maintaining social distance, wearing of masks and gloves and sanitising regularly to protect themselves and their clients while trading in their areas. Permits are available from the Fire Station in Fleet street, Mdantsane Business Centre and the King William’s Town Business Centre. The City is also calling on business owners allowed to operate during Lockdown Level 4 to also comply with regulations. There are compliance regulations that include having a workplace compliance plan, appointing a compliance officer, disinfecting premises, screening employees, provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Our Law Enforcement agencies will be conducting random checks on businesses to ensure that there is compliance. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 