 East London - Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, expressed concern following the arrest of four police Constables for alleged corruption and armed robbery on Sunday morning in East London. "An integration of intelligence-led team comprising the Anti-Corruption Investigators and Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations, pounced on the four K9 police officers, after receiving information linking them to the Armed Robbery incident which was reported to have taken place on Wednesday, 29 April 2020 at a Business Premises in Fleet Street," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "Preliminary investigation suggested that the four Constable had visited the business premises in Fleet Street as part of their work and following a fabricated allegation of sale of alcohol. "It is alleged that on entering the premises, in full police uniform, they handcuffed the owner and led him to a point in his house where they conducted a search. "They later threatened to charge and detain him for keeping a large amount of money in the business premises and for this, they extorted an undisclosed amount of money in order to save himself from detention." He said that on Wednesday, an Armed Robbery was reported in the same business premises allegedly by eight unknown male suspects, three of whom were dressed in police uniform. "During the incident, an undisclosed amount of cash was taken. The investigation also revealed that the suspects had demanded a bribe and further threatened to arrest the owner for money laundering." In the early hours of Sunday, the Anti-Corruption Team in concert with DPCI conducted an operation which included searches in the houses of the suspects. About four suspects were interrogated and in the process, a sum of R10 000 cash including their cellphones were seized as part of the ongoing investigations. “The system is ready to flush-out all those who render themselves irrelevant in our calling to serve and protect our communities with dignity, professionalism and ethical conduct. The SAPS is not a habitat for criminal elements masquerading as loyal police officials. Therefore, the long arm of the law must take its course. We are not apologetic about our stand in this regard,” said Lieutenant General Ntshinga concluded. The arrested suspects aged between 25 and 35 have been charged for Aggravated Robberies, Corruption, Kidnapping and Defeating the ends of Justice. They appeared in the East London Magistrate Court on Monday, and will appear again in court on Tuesday for a formal bail hearing. "The investigation continues and more arrests are expected." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 