 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality launched a COVID-19 regulation enforcement programme in Motherwell on Thursday in response to the increasing numbers of infections in the area. This comes after the Metro recorded a total of 1016 confirmed COVID-19 cases with Motherwell coming up top of the list with more than 110 cases. The Metro has also recorded 472 recoveries and 34 deaths. During a roadblock programme which took place on Thursday morning, Interim Executive Mayor Thsonono Buyeye said the increasing numbers in Motherwell remained a cause for concern which has forced the Metro to plan more intervention programme to intensify the fight against COVID-19 across the whole Metro. Mayor Buyeye said: “We decided to zoom into Motherwell simply because our numbers are rising here. We need to quickly flatten this upward curve. Our efforts will be in Motherwell as a focus area and other areas where large numbers have been recorded, like Zwide and Kwazakhele. "There is still a challenge herr when it comes to wearing of masks and use of sanitisers, most of them can’t afford those hence we have been here many times distributing these necessities, focusing more on informal settlements. We want to make sure that everybody has a chance to arm themselves to fight against the virus.” “We have taken a decision to say let’s come closer to this area and this is a message we have shared with the Department of Health. We will be working here with them on public awareness, screening and testing," said Buyeye. Engagements between the Metro and stakeholders including religious leaders and businesses have also started to prepare the area for the transition to Level 3. As part of the roadblock Metro Police checked compliance of COVID-19 transport regulations and pedestrians COVID-19 regulation. The Municipality also used to the platform to educate residents about the dangers COVID-19. The operation was led by the Mayor Buyeye, Council Speaker Buyelwa Mafaya and Mayoral Committee Members Councillors Queenie Pink and Andile Lungisa. One person was arrested and 10 fines were issued to drivers who were found to have transgressed the COVID-19 regulations. NMBM Safety and Security portfolio head Councillor Queenie Pink said the roadblock was a success as Metro Police not only enforced the law but educated residents as well. She said: “Motherwell was just the first stop as the area is a hotspot in our Metro however we will go to other areas as well, targeting all the hotspot areas which include Zwide, KwaDwesi, Kwazakhele, Walmer and New Brighton. "As we are going to level 3 we will intensify the programmes as more people are going back to work and schools.” The Metro will rollout other programmes which include roadblocks, public education and awareness, screening and testing and compliance visits to businesses, schools and churches following the easing of the lockdown regulations as announced by Presidents Cyril Ramaphosa this week. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 