 East London - As one of the biggest employer in the region, the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality says it is mindful of the fact that our essential employees are in the frontline in the fight against COVID-19. "As a result, we have provided our employees with personal protective equipment (PPE) which includes masks, gloves and sanitizers and have also disinfected all BCM offices during lockdown level 5 and before employees resumed their duties for level 4 Covid -19 restrictions," the Metro said. Personal Protective Equipment Issued: •Gloves - 75 650•Masks - 58 600•Sanitizers (L) - 4 830•500(ML) - 105•Spray Bottles - 411•Disinfectant (L) - 997 "The Municipality is also screening all its essential employees and is assisting the Department of Health to conduct tests and thus far we have tested over 1252 employees in KWT, Mdantsane and East London. We are screening and testing at an average of close to 200 employees per day," it added. On Tuesday, a total of 126 employees from Chiselhurst’s water and sanitation depot were screened and tested for COVID-19. "For screening we have acquired 80 Non – Touch Thermal Scanners have and we are awaiting more. This ensures that everyone entering our buildings will be checked for temperature and be registered for records," the Metro said. "The Municipality would also like to thank employee unions for assisting during the screening and testing processes. "As a standard procedure, any of our employees whom the DOH will confirm as to having tested positive is crafted into our employee wellness program. "We also follow DOH procedures which includes closing premises, disinfecting the affected place and assist DOH in their protocols like isolation, tracking and testing." The Municipality does not divulge employee COVID status nor do we release any COVID-19 related statistics. "We urge all employers in the City to ensure that their employees are protected at all times." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 