 East London - The Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality held its first Virtual Council Meeting on Thursday which was under the confines of the current Lockdown Regulations as reviewed on the 29th April 2020. According to Buffalo City Municipality Council Speaker, Alfred Mtsi, the purpose of this special Council Meeting was to consider the Report of the Executive Mayor regarding two Agenda Items as follows: a) Councillors’ Upper Limits: implementation for 2019/20 financial yearb) Solidarity Pledges to contribute towards curbing the spread and impact of COVID-19 "In considering the items, the Council was unanimous in approving the reports tabled and recommended by the Executive Mayor," he said. "Concerning to the solidarity pledges to contribute towards curbing the spread and impact of coronavirus, the Council resolved to approve SALGA recommendations." Mtsi said that recommendation five (5) of SALGA document which refers to the establishment of the Municipal Solidarity Fund linked to COVID-19, the Council made emphasis on the need to provide particular focus on the following aspects: i. Transparency and inclusivity in the management of government processes for purposes of effective oversight and accountability.ii. Ensure that during the execution of the Solidarity Fund, there must be full compliance with the relevant legislated framework e.g. Municipal Finance Management Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act etc. "In overall, the report presented by the Executive Mayor in the special Virtual Council was approved with its recommendations." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 