 Bhisho - The Hawks on Wednesday said that the long arm of the law had finally caught up with two men following a long drawn-out investigation into alleged fraudulent transactions in the Eastern Cape Department of Education amounting to just over three million Rands ten years ago. "The case stems from a matter that was reported at Zwelitsha SAPS in 2010, and subsequently transferred to the Hawks’ Serious Commercial Crime Investigation," Hawks spokesperson, Captain Lloyd Ramovha. "This happened after it was discovered that the pair, who were contracted as service providers to the department, formed part of a syndicate that allegedly attached key loggers to the computers of the department’s finance section and retrieved usernames and passwords." Capt Ramovha said that about R3.1 million was then transferred into the syndicate’s various bank accounts from 14 fraudulent transactions that were initially paid to four local schools that were listed as beneficiaries. Hawks’ investigation revealed that these payments were never authorized by the department, which necessitated a closer look at service providers, who had access to the department’s IT infrastructure. "Owen Bruce James (41)was the first to be arrested in this case on 09 February 2020, when the investigating team tracked him to his hideout in Turffontein, Johannesburg area followed by Moses Justice Luthuli (56), who was apprehended in KZN, Richards Bay on Friday, 22 May 2020," said Capt Ramovha. "James has already made several court appearances in the Zwelitsha Magistrates’ Court, he remains in custody and is expected back in court on 03 June 2020 for the continuation of his bail application. "Luthuli was however granted R2 000 bail and is expected back in court on 23 July 2020. "Additional suspects implicated in this case will soon be arrested." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  