 Port Elizabeth - The Department of Water and Sanitation in the Eastern Cape has raised concerns about the declining pattern of dam levels especially amid the increasing spread of the Corononavirus pandemic. "This comes as the weekly dam levels report shows a decline in the province’s storage capacity from 57,0% last week to 56,3%," said Sputnik Ratau, spokesperson for the Department of Water and Sanitation. "The Sandile Dam which supplies water to Keiskammahoek, Dimbaza and surrounding areas is at 57.6% this week compared to 57.9% last week. "Bridle Drift Dam under the Amathole Water Supply System which also supplies water to some parts of Buffalo City Metro is sitting at 47,0% compared to 47.3% last week. "Meanwhile, the Wriggleswade Dam which provides water to Stutterheim is down from last week’s 29.4% to 28,0%. This time last year, the dam was slightly above average at 69,2%." Ratau said that also on a steady decline is the Gcuwa Dam which has this week recorded 78.1% from 100,0% last week. "While the Xilinxa Dam supplying water to Ngqamakhwe and Butterworth remains unchanged at an extremely low of 12,9%. During a similar period last year, the dam was at a low 18,1%," he described. "The Toleni Dam which provides water to Toleni, Ngquthu and other surrounding villages is sitting at 82.1% this week compared to last week’s 85.5%. "The Department has since provided more 5 000 water tanks and 201 tankers as a temporary measure to assist with water supply challenges in the province." Ratau said that the Amathole, Chris Hani and Joe Gqabi District Municipalities have received 745, 893 and 265 water tanks respectively. "While the OR Tambo District Municipality received more 1 000 tanks. The on-going installation of the tanks will be done in collaboration with the Amatole Water Board and local municipalities." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 