 King William’s Town - A police driven intelligence operation by Bizana SAPS resulted in one of the biggest dagga busts in the Eastern Cape where 104 dagga bags were intercepted in transit from Bizana to Durban. "Police Intelligence further established that the dagga was going to be loaded in trucks in Durban to its final destination in Western Cape," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. He said that since Tuesday night police patrolled, paying particular attention to a certain route and particular vehicles as identified by intelligence. "Early on Wednesday morning, at about 03:00 the first vehicle, a Toyota Hilux bakkie appeared loaded with 53 bags of dagga. Police chased it until they found it abandoned and towed it back to Bizana," Brig Kinana said. "On their way back, they saw a second vehicle approaching, a Nissan Almera loaded with 33 bags of dagga. The driver almost successfully escaped the police, but was cornered and all the passengers escaped on foot. "Police continued with the waylay and the third vehicle, a Hyundai H1, loaded with 27 bags of dagga approached and was immediately stopped. All three occupants were cornered and arrested effortlessly."  Brig Kinana said that the three males aged, 25, 42 and 48 were arrested and charged for possession and dealing in dagga. "It was established that two are from Lusikisiki while one is from lnanda location, Durban. The vehicles were confiscated." The three suspects are expected to appear at Bizana Magistrates' Court on Thursday. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga commended the members for meticulously executing such a mammoth operation with such precision resulting in the success. "The police must enforce the law and make their presence felt by criminals," said Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 