 Makhanda - THE Eastern Cape Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (DRDAR) in partnership with the Rhodes University faculty of pharmacy has intensified its fight against COVID-19 by launching its own hand sanitizer production programme. MEC for DRDAR, Nomakhosazana Meth formally launched the initiative in April 30 at Dohne Agricultural Development Institute of DRDAR. The sanitizers are produced internally by scientists at the agricultural institute after attending a two-day training at Rhodes University. According to Meth, the internal production of sanitizers is a move to ensure the safety of workers in the agricultural sector against COVID-19. Agriculture is listed among those rendering essential services after other sectors were forced to a halt amid the soaring figures of COVID-19 infections. “These will be for the benefit of farms and agricultural value chain facilities within the province,”said Meth. Meth has been crisscrossing the province visiting farms specializing with different commodities where she checked compliance of farms in respect of the regulations set to curb the spread of the virus. “During our visits we noticed that farm owners observe the regulations but some still need to be supported with PPE and sanitizers. The sanitizers we produce will go a long way in making sure that there is business continuity and farmers continue to produce food and make sure the nation is fed,” she said. During the launch of the sanitizer production programme, Professor Rod Walker for Pharmaceutics at Rhodes University’s faculty of pharmacy said in two days they had managed to produce 900 litresof sanitizers. The team of five scientific technicians produce a minimum of 600 litres a day. The sanitizers (80% alcohol) which are compliant to the World Health Organization (WHO) specifications and standards are made from a combination of ethanol (99%), glycerol and hydrogen peroxide. “The production follow very stringent protocols and the process is recorded at all times to ensure traceability and confirmation of quality,” added Walker. While the Dohne Agricultural Development Institute began producing hand sanitizers this week, the Tsolo Agricultural and Rural Development Institute has been producing cloth face masks which are also distributed to farms. The two institutions are both under the provincial Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 