 Makhanda - “As the Chairperson of the Makana Covid - 19 Joint Operating Committee, I want to put to rest the latest rumours going around that two ambulance drivers have tested positive for the Coronavirus. This is simply not true,” announced Makana Local Municipality Mayor, Mzukisi Mpahlwa, on Monday. Mayor Mpahlwa indicated that residents should know all the facts before spreading rumours. The facts are that two office-bound officials from the Emergency Medical Services based in Makhanda tested positive as a result of the screening and testing done earlier in the month. “They are not ambulance drivers, as rumored, said Mayor Mpahlwa. Out of the 59 staff members, who are from Ndlambe and Makana, only two tested positive. Since their results were known, both officials are in quarantine at their respective homes after officials from the Department of Health inspected their homes as per the COVOD-19 quarantine protocols. “As the JOC we want to congratulate the Department of Health for their swift work done in this respect,” said Mayor Mphlawa. As was reported in the Grocott’s Mail over the weekend, other EMS staff members have self-isolated as a result of coming into contact with the two officials. All staff who had contact with the two officials will be screened and tested again. "Already a few of them have been retested today (Monday) and the several more will be tested tomorrow (Tuesday). The premises of the EMS in Makhanda has been decontaminated on Sunday. "We want to appeal to residents of Makhanda to stop spreading rumours, and to allow our EMS personnel to perform their duties. We also heard that some of the EMS officials who travel by public transport were turned away due to the rumors. We want to appeal to everyone that we need to treat each other with dignity. We need to reiterate that all members of the EMS staff had be screened and tested. “We need to add that there is now only two positive cases in Makhanda and not four as certain media had alluded to over the weekend,” said the Mayor. "We need to thank residents for their vigilance and strict adherence to social distancing, wearing of your masks, and washing of your hands and using sanitizers. All this is key in keeping everyone safe. “Let us not stigmatize each other, let’s build up one another. Please be aware of your working conditions and if possible avoid staff canteens, wash your hands regularly." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 