 Kirkwood - The Executive Mayor of Sundays River Valley Local Municipality, Nombulelo Bixa, requested communities to be calm as the Department of Health confirms more cases in the Valley. This comes as the Department of Health has confirmed 11 cases of COVID 19 in Kirkwood in the Sundays River Valley Municipality which has caused panic in the communities . The Mayor said the necessary precautionary actions have been taken. “I have been alerted that all the patients who have tested positive for COVID 19 are in quarantine and those who have been in contact with them are also in isolation,” she said. The Department of Health is still continuing with the tracing to ensure that all contacts are traced and isolated. She then encouraged all members of the community to be calm. “I call on everyone to remain calm during this period and refrain from stigmatizing those who have been affected by the virus,” she said. She said the municipality has a Joint Operations Committee (JOC) which sits regularly to discuss all issues relating to COVID 19 and the Lockdown to ensure that best precautionary measures are taken to protect the people. She emphasized the importance of adhering to the regulations and working with the government to slow down the spread of Coronavirus. “Proper hygiene, social distancing, wearing a mask when in public and staying at home are still the best weapons against COVID 19. Let us continue to follow the regulations and slow the spread of this virus together,” she added. Residents are encouraged to call the National hotline 0800 029 999/ 0800 111 132 or their local clinic if they experience any symptoms. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 