 Comair and its business rescue practitioners have confirmed the options for customers, companies and travel agents or groups holding unused reservations. Comair operates British Airways and Kulula.com in South Africa. "Persons who have purchased a kulula.com or British Airways (operated by Comair) flight ticket for a departure between 14 March and 31 October 2020 with a ticket number starting with 161, should complete and submit the Customer Election Form available on https://www.comair.co.za/business-rescue, by 17 June 2020," the airline said. It added that persons who have directly purchased their ticket from Comair channels, will have the following options; "Where no election is received by the 17th of June, the value of the booking will remain valid until 31 October 2021 and can be used to make a future flight booking with Comair, subject to availability and difference in rates, fares and/or taxes," the company said. "Persons who have purchased a kulula.com or British Airways (operated by Comair) ticket for a departure between 14 March and 31 October 2020 from a third party (i.e. a ticket which does NOT start with 161) should direct their queries to the travel agent, British Airways or the airline partner from whom the ticket was initially booked. "A list of contact details for Comair’s travel and airline partners is available on the Company’s website; https://www.comair.co.za/business-rescue. "Where an Emirates, Qantas or British Airways International ticket or a hotel booking was purchased with Vitality or a hotel booking with or without extras (such as airport transfers and experiences) was purchased on kulula.com, mtbeds or kulula Holidays, and any of these bookings were cancelled with a refund requested, customers should expect further communication in due course." Visit www.comair.co.za for more information regarding the business rescue proceedings, including all statutory notices. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 