 East London - The Buffalo City Municipality says it is continuing with its services and as part of Covid-19 interventions, has delivered a total of 72 water tanks to its communities in an attempt to ensure that people have access to water. "The municipality prides itself with the fact that 98 per cent of its residents have access to quality water, however, we are aware that more needs to be done," it added. "Of the 72 water tanks 40 have been installed and the rest is still on the way. This total is additional to the 222 tanks that BCMM had provided to various areas prior to the COVID 19 period. "Another 50 tanks will be provided by BCMM to enhance storage capacity in areas that are worse off than the others. "The City has a total of 19 water tankers that are delivering services in the affected areas, 5 of which are provided by the Department of Water and Sanitation." The Metro said that water quality monitoring on the water tankers is done on a weekly basis, in addition to daily sampling and testing of the reticulated portable water. All trucks and fill-up points are sampled and tested comply with the drinking water quality standards. "More tanks will be provided by BCMM to enhance storage capacity in areas that are worse off than the others. All toilets provided are inherently delivered with water points for hygiene purposes," it said. "Sinks are also provided for other functions required by the community. The municipality is continuing installing new communal water and sanitation facilities and also doing repairs on existing ones where it is deemed necessary. "Water is proving to be very important in the fight against the coronavirus as it is expected that we wash our hands regularly. As we are still in drought, we urge our people to use water sparingly. "We also wish to remind our communities to adhere to the rules and regulation of the lockdown as per command of the State President." The Metro also said urged residents to maintain social distancing and sanitise regularly to help keep families safe. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 