 King Williams Town - The Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, was welcomed back to work following a two-week-long recovery from the Covid-19 virus. "Two weeks ago Lieutenant General Ntshinga voluntarily underwent a routine check-up which included a test for the Covid-19 virus," described police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "At the time of the test, Lieutenant General Ntshinga was asymptomatic but due to her nature of work and constant interaction with people from all walks of life she felt that it was imperative to undergo the test, which resulted in a positive diagnosis. "It is with much relief that Lieutenant General Ntshinga is able to declare that she has recovered from this illness after having a second test done recently." Brig Kinana said that the management, the entire personnel of the South African Police Service including external stakeholder have expressed their happiness and gratefulness at the return of the Provincial Commissioner and what some described as a committed servant of the people in the fight against crime. "The Provincial Commissioner returns in good health and spirit. This week she resumed her duties to ensure compliance with lockdown regulations and strengthening the fight against crime within the communities," he added. "Her return has raised much hope, not only within the SAPS personnel but also among people of our communities and this can be seen as a victory against the Covid-19 pandemic." Lieutenant General Ntshinga has expressed gratitude to the entire SAPS, various stakeholders and individuals for their unwavering and humbling moral support during her period of self-isolation. She encouraged members to observe the guidelines and containment measures as provided by the Department of Health. She emphasised that the key to defeating Coronavirus is compliance with Disaster regulations and to continue to practice good personal hygiene and social distancing. “The same commitment and strength demonstrated in the fight against crime, must include and be taken to the backyard of Covid-19 which seek to cause devastation among us,” Lieutenant General Ntshinga concluded. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 