 Mthatha - The Executive Mayor of Alfred Nzo District, Cllr Sixolile Mehlomakhulu, has urged the people of the District, especially the youth to comply with Level 4 regulations. Cllr Mehlomakhulu made this Clarion call in an interview with Alfred Nzo Community Radio where he was creating awareness and the interpretation of the Level 4 regulations in a bid to educate the people on what to do and what not to do during this level. Currently the District Command Council on COVID-19 which is chaired by the Executive Mayor, has learnt that to this point over 200 000 people have been screened and over 1800 have been tested. The DCC has also established that there are currently 23 cases in the district for which 2 individuals have recovered. "It is through the sick patients adhering to the instructions given by Health Officials that no death have been registered in our District, so to save lives, our people must comply," the Executive Mayor said in a statement. Cllr. Mehlomakhulu expressed his gratitude to the Business People and the private sector who have come to the fore with donations of food parcels and food vouchers in a bid to help those deeply affected by the Lockdown in order to provide food to curb hunger during this difficult time. The District Municipality urges people to wear their masks at all times when leaving their homes, to exercise good hygen, maintain a safe distance between them at all times. Cllr Mehlomakhulu also urged Alfred Nzo District Citizens to avoid crowded areas. He urged young people to stop organizing tournaments and to stay at home. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 