 Port Elizabeth - The Maersk operated vessel, Kmarin Aqua docked at the Port of PE’s Berth 103 on Tuesday, 12 May 2020, carrying 1800 cost chain boxes to start the season’s citrus exports from the Bay. The vessel discharged 850 containers, of which 524 were reefer containers for the export of citrus from the Port of PE. Rajesh Dana, Port Manager at the Port of PE said, “With the negative economic impact that COVID-19 has presented not only to South Africa, but to the entire world, it is significant that the Port of PE can ensure the efficient facilitation of imports and exports, whilst ensuring strict compliance to all regulations in managing the safety, security and health concerns of our employees, customers, port users and stakeholders. "The Port of PE COVID-19 Level 4 operations are geared towards ensuring that we continue to be a “customer-centric multi-cargo port that prides itself on flexibility and service excellence.” Dana added; “We are proud that we are able to provide our full maritime service offering which includes, Vessel Traffic Services, two tug boats, pilotage and berthing crew, which are operational 24 hours, seven days a week to ensure that we adequately meet shipping needs during this difficult time. "This ensures that the Port of PE continues to play its part in reviving economic activity and facilitating the economic recovery of our region and South Africa." Despite the logistical challenges that COVID-19 lockdown has brought about, South Africa’s citrus export season has gotten off to a good start with a notable increase in global demand being evident so far. As a result of some of the impacts of COVID-19 in other countries, there has been a marked increase in the demand for citrus supplies from South Africa. Another reason that have been cited for the increase in demand is the international drive for healthy foods to boost immune systems. Lemons for example, fall in the category of Vitamin C products, which is an immune booster. The vessel has sailed from the port and will remain at anchorage and will be docked again at a future date to load more cargo. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 