 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) Mayoral Committee Member for Public Health, Councillor Yolisa Pali led from the front during an educational and awareness programme, educating and pleading with residents to stay at home, practise social distancing when in public and washing hands regularly in line with government’s Covid-19 regulations.Councillor Pali also handed out hand saniters and protective masks, reminding residents without sanitisers to wash their hands with soap and water.Scores of residents from KwaDwesi Extension and Joe Slovo were overjoyed when they received hand sanitisers and protective masks from the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality today to fight Covid-19.KwaDwesi has recorded among the highest COVID-19 infection rates in Nelson Mandela Bay, while the Nelson Mandela Bay region has the highest number of infections in the Eastern Cape.As part of its efforts to decrease the chance of infection, the Municipality availed the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in North End to the Department of Health to be used as an isolation centre for those who have tested positive for COVID-19. Phase 1 of the isolation arrangement has seen more than 200 beds available. The stadium itself can accommodate 1500 beds.  Councillor Pali was joined by NMBM Environmental Health Practitioners, who educated and urged residents to wear their masks correctly and not victimise those who test positive for the Coronavirus. Following her visits inside residents' yards, she said: “We have been going to public spaces like malls and preaching there. Today, we thought it best that we also come to residential areas and educate residents about the seriousness of this disaster.Some residents have heard on radio and TV that they should stay home and have been doing that; so it’s also important that they get the message and resources while in their homes so that they know that the fight against this invisible virus is far from over.“Although many of our residents are starting to positively receive our message, there are still some residents who do not seem to take it seriously; they don’t believe the virus is real. We have since intensified our awareness efforts across the City. We are covering all the corners of the City, seven days a week. We need people to take this seriously and stay at home, because we are still on Level Four and we are still expected to stay home and be safe,” said MMC Pali.Ever since the announcement of the Lockdown, municipal Environmental Health Practitioners have interacted with more than four hundred thousand people through shopping mall and community awareness programmes.Part of this awareness includes educating residents about the dangers of not adhering to the COVID-19 regulations.All Nelson Mandela Bay's shopping malls have been covered. "I must say I am proud of the work that has been done by our practitioners. Ever since this disaster was declared, they have been at the forefront, making sure that the people of the City are safe," added Pali.Resident Phindile Dana (62) said that the visit by NMBM Health Practitioners gave him hope and armed him with knowledge.“I have received the masks and I feel protected with it on. This will help me going forward. I have trust in this Government.”Another resident who received a sanitiser and masks, Novusumzi Luphando (65), said that he was very happy to have received the items and vowed to continue to stay at home. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 