 Uitenhage - In support of the local and provincial government's efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Nelson Mandela Bay, Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA) has donated 150 beds to the isolation facility at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. The Nelson Mandela Bay municipality recently announced that the stadium would be used to isolate low-acuity patients who have been infected with Covid-19, to prevent them from spreading the virus further. This facility will be managed by the Department of Health, with support from the Municipality. VWSA was approached by the Department of Health to assist in equipping the facility to house more patients. Within the space of a week, the company answered this call and sourced the required 150 bed bases. These beds were delivered and handed over to the government by VWSA and the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber. This donation is part of VWSA's continuous efforts to protect and prepare the communities of Nelson Mandela Bay amid the Covid-19 crisis. The company has also been involved in the local manufacture of face masks, respirators and ventilators. "VWSA remains committed to supporting the Business Chamber and local government in their efforts to contain Covid-19 and save lives," said Thomas Schaefer, Volkswagen Group South Africa Chairman and Managing Director. "As this pandemic is a threat to all communities, we cannot falter or fail to act. It is my hope that this donation will enable the Department and its brave healthcare workers to save many more lives." Image: L - R: Councillor Buyelwa Mafaya, Speaker: Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Wendy Dunywa, Facilities Champion: Eastern Cape Department of Health, Nomkhita Mona, CEO: Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber, Councillor Tshonono Buyeye, Acting Executive Mayor: Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Dr John Black, Infectious Diseases Specialist: Eastern Cape Department of Health, Thomas Schaefer, Managing Director: Volkswagen Group South Africa and Andrew Muir, President: Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 