 Another intriguing week of market activity has come and gone. We live in very interesting days, where markets never do the same thing two days in a row... ...which comes with its own risks, as too many business owners with forex exposure know. They know that it needs a clear head, and a emotion-free cool pair of hands to take the rudder when the markets are all over the place. Not an easy thing to find... But more on that later - to get back to the Rand for now, we saw a volatile week once again, although a little quieter than previous ones. However, this is just the start (as you would have seen if you watched our webinar last month) and we have some road to ride yet in the Covid-19 path. So let's start with a backward look first, and then take a peak into what this next week holds.   Over the course of the 5 days, here were the major talking points for the week as we saw the Rand duck & dive: The Rand actually began the week on the front foot, having taken a good 50c off the Dollar in later week trading before, and then opened Monday nearing R18.20/$ in early trade. There has definitely been more optimism in global markets in the past couple of weeks... ...and this has been despite the ongoing pandemic. How is this possible, you may ask? Well, that is just the irrationality of humans - sentiment was incredibly negative some weeks back. So persons had to turn positive - only for the pendulum to swing again. And that was just what we saw with the slew of economic news warning the risk of the lockdown continuing, as cases continued to rise regardless. Over in the US (the global market indicator), here were some indicators of how things had changed: And yet, we have seen the stock markets flying higher... ...why is this? Well, this is a classic Elliott Wave - with a Wave 2 being a significant retracement back into Wave 1's gains/losses, before we flip back into Wave 3, the most destructive and deepest of waves in a 5 Wave move. And what we saw from the stock markets this last week was warning signs of that, with the Dow Jones Index losing more than 6% at one stage in the week. The fact is that the positivity has been irrational, considering the global pandemic - but that is going to likely end soon...   And then in other news: There was so much more we didn't get a chance to cover… a swine fever outbreak in the Eastern Cape, Germany's economy going into recession with a 2.2% GDP loss in Q1, Saudi Arabia cutting oil production by another million barrels a day, South Africa's housing market taking a massive hit and much more. But as for the Rand, we saw a choppy end to the week, finishing around R18.50/$ at the South African close...    Now, I realize that this Rand Review has not been particularly Rand-focused... But we try to give you a complete overview of what is global and what is local - and this is where it changes as we take a look to the week ahead, as to where the Rand sits and where we see it going... In terms of events, we have some big ones ahead of us: But as we have already seen - the Rand will trade based on where sentiment drives it - and not where events will tend to move it. So that is what we will continue to focus on - what the patterns are telling us as to what is mots likely to happen - before it actually happens... ...and we suggest you do the same.  To get a look at what charts we are looking at and using to give direction, use the link below to get access to the latest forecast. No charge. All yours for 14 days. Click here to get 14 Day Trial on the house!  Looking forward to your feedback. To your success~ James Paynter  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 