 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Department of Health on Sunday announced that the number of people who travelled from the Western Cape to the Eastern Cape that have tested positive for COVID-19 is now 137. This represents 57 more new cases of people who have tested positive who entered the Eastern Cape through Tsitsikamma and Aberdeen during the grace period of interprovincial travelling. This has contributed to the province's number of confirmed cases being 1,078 as of Saturday night. The majority of the new positive cases are in OR Tambo, Buffalo City Metro, Amathole and Graaff-Reinett. Teams are now tracing and tracking their contacts using the newly handed over 4x4 bakkies as those in Graaff-Reinett had also attended a funeral. Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba said she was concerned about the numbers of positive cases continously going up. "Because we cannot get to everyone who recently travelled from other provinces at the same time, we are calling on people to be responsible citizens and contact our 24 hour call centre on 08000 32364 so that they can be screened and tested if they have any of the symptoms consistent with COVID-19. "We need everyone to play their part because people's lives are at risk. If we all get infected by the coronavirus at the same time, our health care system will not cope and will result in more deaths that could have been prevented," she said. The MEC sent her condolences to the families, friends and loved ones of the 21 people that have died COVID-19 related deaths. "We feel their pain as this affects all of us. May their souls rest in peace." There has also been a confirmed case at a retail store in Port St Johns. MEC Gomba said that teams are following up in this case. "While concerned with the number of confirmed cases and deaths, there have also been some good news as our dedicated health workers have nursed back to full health 519 people who had previously tested positive for the virus," her department said. "The number of recoveries are promising and shows that testing positive does not mean you will die from this virus. "Our health professionals deserve praise for their hard work during these difficult times. "These are small victories that we need to celebrate." It also said that the 110 people who were also under quarantine in Mphekweni and Fish River in Port Alfred have also been given a clean bill of health. "Our number priority is to stop the spread of this virus and for us to successfully do that, we need people to stay at home, practise good personal hygiene by washing their hands with soap and water or sanitiser regularly, Social distance and wear masks when going out to buy essentials or get medical help." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 